"Border Town" TXT complete set

Author: Shen Congwen

The TXT content is shared by netizens of Classic Book Depository (jingdianbook.com) and is only used for communication among book friends. If you like the book, please purchase the genuine version.

Paragraph [1]: Inscription of "Border Town"

I have an indescribable tender love for farmers and soldiers, and this feeling can be seen everywhere in all my works. I never hide this feeling. I grew up in a small rural town like the one mentioned in the work. My grandfather, father and brothers were all in the military: those who died would not die on duty, and those who would not die would inevitably spend their entire lives on duty. To describe their loves, hates, sorrows and joys based on the side of the world that I have come into contact with, no matter how clumsy the pen is, it may not go too far away from the subject. Because they are upright and honest, some aspects of their lives are extremely great, some are extremely ordinary, some aspects of their temperaments are extremely beautiful, and some aspects are extremely trivial. When I started writing them, in order to make them more humane and more humane, I naturally wrote them honestly. But as a result, this work may inevitably become a useless undertaking.

According to the current trend, literary theorists, critics and most readers will easily arouse unpleasant feelings towards this kind of work. The former said he "does not fall behind the times" and told people that China does not need such works, while the latter "is too worried about falling behind the times" and is currently unwilling to read such works. This is of course true. What is "outdated"? A somewhat rational person may never understand it, but most people are not afraid of "falling behind"? I have something to say: "My book is not written for this majority of people." People who have read three or five Western-style books on literary theory and literary criticism, or have also read a lot of classic and modern world masterpieces, their life experience often does not allow them to know a little bit about another place in China in addition to being "erudite". Therefore, even if this work conforms to a certain literary theory, critics will praise it in various ways, but this kind of criticism still inevitably becomes an insult to the author. Since they do not want to understand the true love, hate and joy of this nation, they cannot explain the pros and cons of this work - this book was not written for them. As for literature and art lovers, they are either college students or middle school students in densely populated cities in the country. They often honestly and naively spend part of their precious time reading newly published domestic literary books. They are controlled and controlled by a habit formed by the collaboration of some theorists, critics, clever publishers, and literary journalists who are accustomed to lying and spreading rumors. Their lives are, at the same time, too far away from the world mentioned in this work. They don't need this kind of work, and this book doesn't want them. Theorists have literary theories published in various countries’ publications to refer to, so they don’t have to worry about running out of things to say; critics have writers and works to which they owe a small debt of gratitude, enough to denigrate them for the rest of their lives. Most readers, regardless of their tastes or beliefs, have works to read. Just because we care about the readers, aren't there many people who, it is said, are always turning like tops for the readers? Even though the publication of this book may not have been abandoned by the theoreticians and critics who lead the majority, and the majority of readers who are led by it may not completely give up on it, the author of this book has already deliberately given up on this "majority".

This book of mine is only intended for people who "have left school, or have never been able to get close to school, and who still know some Chinese characters, are in positions beyond the reach of literary theory, literary criticism, and lying and spreading news, live in that society, and are very concerned about the advantages and disadvantages of the entire nation in space and time." They really know what the countryside is now, and if they want to know what the countryside was like in the past, they must also be willing to learn about the rural areas and soldiers in a small corner of the world from this book. Even if the world I write about is a completely unfamiliar world to them, their tolerance and their enthusiasm for seeking comfort and knowledge from a book will definitely enable them to read the book calmly. I am not stopping there. I am also going to give them an opportunity for comparison. In another work, I will mention the twenty years of civil war, which caused the character and soul of some farmers who were the first to be affected to be suppressed by the force, and what kind of new thing they became after losing their original models of simplicity, thrift, peace, and integrity. How impoverished and lazy they became as a result of excessive taxation and the poison of opium! I will make a simple narrative about the worries of some small people in the changes as this nation is led by history towards an unknown destiny, and the concepts and desires of "survive" and "how to survive" due to insufficient nutrition. My readers should be rational, and this rationality is based on being concerned about the current social changes in China, understanding the past greatness and current degeneration of this nation, and the lonely people who are engaged in the great cause of national rejuvenation. This work may only give them a little nostalgic feeling, or it may only give them a wry smile, or it may give them a nightmare, but at the same time, maybe it can also give them a kind of courage and confidence!

Diary of April 24, 1934

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [2]: Chapter 1

one

From Sichuan to Hunan, there is an official road to the east. When the official road approached the border of western Hunan and reached a small mountain town called "Chatong", there was a small stream and a small white pagoda beside the stream. A single family lived under the pagoda. There is only an old man, a girl, and a yellow dog in this family.

The small stream flows down and around the mountain, and then merges into the big river of Chadong about three miles away. If one crosses the stream and walks over the hill, it will only take one mile to reach the edge of Chadong City. The stream is like the back of a bow, and the mountain road is like the string of a bow, so there is a slight difference between the distance and the distance. The creek is about twenty feet wide, and the river bed is made of large rocks. The quiet water may be so deep that a pole cannot reach the bottom, but it is still so clear and transparent that you can count the fish coming and going in the river. Since the creek is a thoroughfare between Sichuan and Hunan, the water often rises and falls. Due to financial constraints, it was not possible to build a bridge, so a square-headed ferry was arranged. This ferry, including people and horses, can carry about twenty passengers across the river at a time. When the number of people is large, it will come and go repeatedly. A small bamboo pole was erected on the bow of the ferry, and a movable iron ring was hung on it. A piece of waste cable was pulled by the water channel at both ends of the stream bank. When someone was transitioning, the iron ring was hung on the waste cable. The people on the boat would use their hands to climb the cable and slowly lead the boat across the other side. The boat was about to reach the shore. The man in charge of the ferry shouted "slow down, slow down", and he jumped onto the shore and pulled the iron ring. Then all the people, cargo, cattle and horses got on the shore, climbed over the hill and disappeared. The ferry is owned by the public, so the ferryman does not have to pay for it. Someone felt uneasy and grabbed a handful of money and threw it on the board. The ferryman would pick it up one by one and still stuff it into the man's hand. He said with a serious look as if he was arguing: "I have enough money. Three buckets of rice and seven hundred coins are enough. Who wants this!"

But it doesn’t work. I want peace of mind in everything. Who would be embarrassed if I don’t get paid for my efforts? Some people will still take the money anyway. The shipkeeper couldn't help it, and for the sake of peace of mind, he sent the money to Chadong to buy tea and tobacco. He hung bundles of high-quality tobacco produced in Chadong on his belt. He would give it generously to anyone who needed it. Sometimes when I guess from the air that the person traveling far away has attracted considerable attention to the grass smoke around him, I put a small bunch of grass smoke on the person's baggage and say, "Why don't you smoke this? It's good, it's wonderful, it tastes good, and it's appropriate to give it away!" In June, the tea leaves are put into a large vat, soaked in boiling water, and given to passers-by to quench the thirst of passers-by.

The man who manages this ferry is the old man who lives under the tower. He has lived for seventy years, and has been guarding this creek since he was twenty years old. In the past fifty years, he has ferried countless people in his boat. Even though he is so old. It was time for him to rest, but God did not allow him to rest. It seemed that he could not leave this part of his life. He never thought about the significance of his position to himself, he just lived there quietly and faithfully. It replaced the sky, allowing him to feel the power of life when the sun rose, and when the sun set, he would not think about the girl who died at the same time as the sun. His only friends are a ferry boat and a yellow dog, and his only relative is that girl.

The girl's mother, the only daughter of an old boatman, had an affair with a Chadong soldier fifteen years ago, secretly behind the back of her loyal father. After having a child, the garrison sergeant wanted to ask her to escape downstream together. But judging from the behavior of escaping, one violated the responsibility of a soldier, and the other had to leave his lonely father. After some consideration, the soldier saw that she did not have the courage to go far away and that he could not ruin his reputation as a soldier, so he thought to himself: If we die together, we can't get together, so if we die together, no one can stop her, so he took the poison first. The woman is concerned about the piece of meat in her belly, can't bear it, and can't come up with an idea. The matter had already been known to my father, who was a ferryman, but my father did not add a significant word. He just acted as if he had never heard of the matter and continued to live peacefully. The daughter felt shame on one side and compassion on the other, and stayed by her father's side. After the child was born, she went to the stream and ate a lot of cold water and died. In something close to a miracle, the orphan actually grew up and turned thirteen in the blink of an eye. The old boatman came here to live in a place where there are many bamboos and green colors on the two mountains. The old boatman casually picked up a close name for the poor orphan and called it "Cui Cui".

The greenery has grown up in the wind and sun, turning the skin black, and the green mountains and green waters are visible to the eye, and a pair of eyes are as clear as crystal. Nature has raised her and educated her. She is innocent and lively, just like a little animal in every aspect. He is also so good, like a mountain deer, he never thinks of cruel things, never worries, and never gets angry. Usually when she met a stranger on the ferry and noticed her, she would look at the stranger with bare eyes, pretending to be ready to run away into the mountains at any time. But after understanding that people have no intention, she would calmly play by the water again.

The old boatman will always stay at the bow of the boat, rain or shine. When someone was making the transition, they would bend down slightly and use their hands to guide the bamboo cables to cross the boat across the stream. Sometimes she got tired and fell asleep lying on the big rocks near the stream. People on the other side waved and called for transition. Cuicui wouldn't let her grandfather get up, so she jumped out of the boat and quickly helped her grandfather cross the river. She did everything smoothly and never missed anything. Sometimes I was on the boat with my grandfather's yellow dog. During the transition, I and my grandfather worked together. When the boat was approaching the shore, and my grandfather was greeting the guests: "Slow down, slow down," the yellow dog held the rope in its mouth and jumped up first. As if it knew how to do its duty, it held the rope tightly and pulled the tug to the shore.

The weather was clear and windy, no one was passing by, and the town was long and leisurely. Grandfather and Cuicui sat on the big rock in front of the door to bask in the sun. Or throw a piece of wood from a high place into the water, and make the yellow dog next to you jump down from the high place on the rock to bring the wood back. Or Cuicui and Huang Gou both opened their ears, listening to their grandfather telling stories about wars in the city many years ago. Or grandfather and Cuicui, each holding a recorder made of small bamboo, playing tunes to welcome brides and send off daughters. When the ferryman came, the old boatman put down his bamboo pipe and followed the boat alone. Crossing the stream to cross the river, one of the people on the rock saw the boat moving, so he shouted sharply:

"Grandpa, grandpa, you listen to me playing and you sing!"

When grandpa reached the middle of the stream, he sang happily. The hoarse voice and the sound of bamboo pipes oscillated in the quiet air, and the stream seemed to be more lively. (In fact, the return of singing makes everything quieter.)

Sometimes the transition is the calves passing through Chadong from eastern Sichuan, the sheep, or the bride's sedan chair. Cuicui will try to be the ferryman, standing on the bow of the boat, lazily climbing on the cable to let the boat pass slowly. After the cattle and sheep sedan came ashore, Cuicui followed them and stood on the top of the hill. Watching these things go a long way, she turned back to the boat and brought it closer to the shore of her home. And alone, she may lowly imitate the braying of a lamb or the braying of a cow, or pick a handful of wild flowers and tie them on her head to dress up the bride alone.

Chadong Mountain City is only a mile away from Dutou. When buying oil and salt, or when my grandfather had to drink a glass of wine during the holidays, my grandfather would not go to the city, so the yellow dog would accompany Cuicui into the city to prepare things. When we arrived at the grocery store, there were a lot of vermicelli, a big vat of sugar, firecrackers, and red candles. Everyone left a deep impression on Cuicui. When she returned to her grandfather, she always talked about these things for a long time. There are many boats on the river there, and hundreds of boatmen are busy loading and unloading groceries. This kind of boat is much larger than the ferry boat, much more interesting, and Cuicui is not easy to forget. two

The city of Chadong was built on the water and close to the mountain. On the side near the mountain, the city wall was like a long snake, climbing along the mountain. On the water side, there is room on the riverside outside the city to set up a pier, and small tent boats can be berthed in the bay. When the boat goes down, it carries tung oil, green salt, and dyed rafts. Upstream, cotton, yarn, cloth, groceries, and seafood are transported. There is a river street running through each dock. Most of the houses are on the ground and half on the water. Because of the limited space, all of the houses are equipped with stilts. Spring water rose in the river, and when the water gradually entered the streets, people on the river street used long ladders, one end of which was placed on the eaves of the house, and the other end on the city wall. Everyone cursed and shouted, brought their baggage, bedding, and rice jars, and entered the city from the ladder. When the water receded, they left the city through the city gate. If the water comes particularly fiercely in a certain year, one or two of the stilted buildings along the river will be washed away by the flood, and everyone will stare at them from the top of the city. Those who suffered losses also stared blankly, as if they had nothing to say about the losses they suffered, similar to how they see other irreparable misfortunes coming under the arrangement of nature. When the water rises, you can still look at the suddenly widening river surface from the city. The flowing water is mighty and mighty. Along with the mountains and rivers, there are houses, cattle, sheep and big trees floating up from the upper stream. So in the slow water, there are often people driving small sampans in front of the customs barges. When they see an animal, a small piece of wood, or an empty boat coming up and down in the middle of the river, and there is a woman or a child crying on the boat, they quickly paddle out. Some people downstream meet the target, tie it with a long rope, and then paddle toward the shore. These honest and brave people also love profit and are righteous, similar to ordinary locals. He does not only save people and things, but he also does it very quickly and bravely in a joyful and adventurous behavior, which makes people unable to help but applaud him.

That river is the famous Youshui in history, and its new name is Baihe. When the Baihe River reaches the lower reaches of Chenzhou and joins the Yuanshui River, it becomes slightly turbid and resembles mountain spring water. If you go upstream, you will see the bottom of the deep pool three to five feet clear. The deep pool is reflected in the daylight, and the small white pebbles and patterned agate pebbles on the bottom of the river are all clearly visible. Fish swimming in the water come and go as if they are floating in the air. There are many high mountains on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, and there are many thin bamboos in the mountains that can be used to make paper. Their deep green color is eye-catching all year round. Most of the houses near the water are among the peach and apricot flowers. In spring, you only need to pay attention. Wherever there are peach blossoms, there must be a house, and wherever there are houses, there must be a place to sell wine. In summer, the purple cloth clothes and trousers that are dried in the sun can be used as flags for people's homes. When autumn and winter come, the houses on the cliffs and on the waterfront are all clearly visible. The yellow mud walls and black tiles are always well placed and harmonize well with the surrounding environment, making the impression one gets upon one's face a very pleasant one. A traveler who is slightly interested in poetry and pictures will not be bored by hunkering down in a small boat for thirty days in this small river, precisely because there are miracles everywhere, and the boldness and ingenuity of nature are all fascinating.

The source of Baihe River comes from the border of Sichuan. Boats traveling upstream from Baihe River can go directly to the beautiful mountains of Sichuan during the spring water. But in the Hunan realm, Chadong is the last water pier. Although the surface of this river is about half a mile wide in Chadong, when the water falls in autumn and winter, the riverbed is less than 20 feet where it flows, and the rest is just a pool of bluestone. After the boat arrives, it has no way to go up, so all import and export goods from the east of Sichuan are dropped into the water and landed from this place. The export goods are all carried by porters with fir poles on their shoulders, and the import goods are also moved from here in bunches and loaders by manpower.

There is only one garrison battalion adapted from the former Green Camp garrison stationed in the city, and about 500 households. (Except for some of these households who own some fields and oil mills, or are small capitalists who post accounts for oil, rice, and cotton yarn, most of the others are families with military status who came here when they were stationed in the garrison.) There is also a leasing bureau in the place. Its office is in a small temple under He Street outside the city, and a long banner is often hung on it. The director lives in the city. A battalion of soldiers was stationed at Laoshenjiang's Yamen. Except for the buglers who went to the city every day to play trumpets and let people know that there were troops stationed here, the rest of the soldiers seemed not to exist. In the winter day, when I go to the city, I see clothes and vegetables hanging out in front of people’s doors everywhere. Sweet potato vines hang from the eaves. Bags made of brown clothes, filled with chestnuts, hazelnuts and other hard-shelled fruits, were often hung under the eaves. There are big and small chickens crowing and playing in various corners of the house. Occasionally, a man would occupy the doorway in front of his house, sawing wood, or chop trees with an axe, and pile the chopped wood into the open ground, one by one like pagodas. Or you can see several middle-aged women, wearing hard-starched blue cloth clothes and white cloth buttoned aprons hanging on their chests, hunched over in the sun, talking and doing things. Everything is always so quiet, and every day of all people passes in this kind of pure loneliness. A moment of silence increases people's ability to think about "human affairs" and increases their dreams. Everyone living in this small town must have their own set of expectations for their love and hate in human affairs. But what are these people thinking? Who knows. Living in a higher place in the city, you can overlook the opposite river and the scenery in the river from a stop in front of the door. When the boat comes, you can watch countless trackers from a distance on the opposite river beach. The trackers also brought small snacks such as candies from the lower reaches and brought them into the city to exchange for money when they reached the shore. When the boat comes, the child's imagination is on the side of those pulling the boat. As for the adults, they hatch a nest of chickens, raise two pigs, ask the boatman to make a pair of gold earrings, and bring back two feet of official blue cloth, a jar of good soy sauce, and a double-made Mobil lampshade, which takes up the hearts of most housewives.

Although this small town is so quiet and peaceful, it is the hub of commercial transactions in eastern Sichuan, so the situation in Xiaohe Street outside the city is a little different. There are also inns where businessmen stay and barber shops where they stay. In addition, restaurants, grocery stores, oil shops, salt stores, and flower shops all have their own status and decorate this river street. There is also a shop that sells sandalwood carts, bamboo cables and pots and pans used on ships, and introduces sailors to people who eat on the dock. On the long table in front of the small restaurant, there is often fried carp tofu, decorated with red pepper shreds, lying in a shallow mouth bowl. There are a lot of red chopsticks in the big bamboo tube next to the bowl. Anyone who is willing to spend some money can sit down by the long table in front of the door and take out a pair of chopsticks. Over there, a woman with very thin eyebrows and white powder on her face will He came over and asked, "Brother, deputy, do you want sweet wine? Do you want soju?" The man, who was more fiery, humorous, and somewhat interesting to the shopkeeper, would pretend to be angry and said, "Eating sweet wine? I'm not a child, and you ask for sweet wine!" Then, the strong soju was scooped out of the big vat with a bamboo tube, poured into the earthen bowl, and immediately came to the desk next to him. Grocery stores sell Mobil oil, lamps for burning Mobil oil, and paper for incense candles. Youxingtuntung oil. Green salt from the fire well in the salt stack. Huayizhuang sells white cotton yarn, large cloth, cotton and black crepe from Baotou. Those who sell boat supplies have everything listed and everything is ready. Sometimes there is an anchor weighing more than a hundred kilograms lying on the roadside outside the door, waiting for the buyer to ask for a price. Their business is to introduce sailors, and those who eat on the docks live in their homes on He Street. The door is open all day long, and shipowners in blue-feathered satin mandarins and sloppy sailors often come in and out. The place looks like a teahouse but does not sell tea. It is not an opium house but you can smoke. Although those who come here are talking about business on the boat, there are certain rules for people on and off the boat, and there is no need to discuss numbers. Most of them came here to "get together." Focusing on "leading affairs", we will talk about local current affairs, business situations in the two provinces, and "new things" in the downstream. Most of the people who are invited to the party will be here when collecting money, and the first round of gatherings where the dice are played to see what the points are is often held here. There are two things that often become their business experience: buying and selling ships and buying and selling wives.

With the development of commerce in the metropolis, there are some kind of sojourners. Because of the needs of merchants and sailors, there is actually a group of people on Hejie Street in this small border town, gathering in some houses with stilts. This kind of women were either brought from the nearby countryside or were women who came to Hunan with the Sichuan army. They wore fake silk clothes and calico trousers, their eyebrows were pulled into a thin line, and their big buns were covered with extremely fragrant and vulgar oil. During the day, when I had nothing to do, I would sit at the door and make shoes, embroidering two phoenixes with red and green silk thread on the toes of my shoes, or pick out an embroidered armband for my sailor lover, and spend the long days watching the passers-by. Or you can lean against the river window and watch the sailors selling goods, or listen to the sailors climbing the mast and singing. In the evening, they took turns receiving merchants and sailors, fulfilling the duties of a "prostitute".

Due to the simple customs in the border areas, even if you work as a "prostitute", you will always be honest. When you meet someone you don't know well, you have to pay money first before doing business, and then close the door and go wild. Once you get to know the person, money becomes dispensable. "Prostitutes" mostly relied on Sichuan merchants to support themselves, but most of their benevolence was with sailors. Those who were in a good relationship bit each other's mouths and necks and made an oath, agreeing that "no one is allowed to mess around after the breakup." For forty or fifty days, the one floating on the boat and the one staying on the shore stayed and passed the days, tightly binding their hearts to someone far away. In particular, the woman's feelings are sincere and indescribable. The man will not come back after the agreed time. When he dreams, he always dreams of the boat approaching the shore and a man swinging from the gangplank to the shore and running straight towards her. Or if you have doubts during the day, you will see a man on the mast singing to the other side in the dream, but ignore you. Those with a weaker character then threw themselves into the river and swallowed opium smoke in their dreams, while those with a stronger character ran straight towards the sailor with a kitchen knife in hand. Although their lives are so alienated from the general society, when tears and joy are mixed into the lives of these people through a kind of love and hate, they are similar to other young lives in another land. Their whole bodies and minds are soaked in that little bit of love and hate, and they forget everything else. If there are any differences, it's just that these people are more realistic and closer to confusion. Short-term appointments, long-term marriages, temporary closures, these transactions concerning a woman's body, due to the simplicity of the people, those who take the matter seriously do not feel it is so shameful, and onlookers never use the concept of a scholar to criticize and despise them. These people value righteousness over profit, but are also trustworthy and self-restrained. Even if they are prostitutes, they are often more trustworthy than people in the city who are ethical and know their shame.

The man in charge of the water dock is named Shun Shun, a man who has been in the army since the Qing Dynasty. During the revolution, he served as a commander at the famous Army Forty-nine Base. Some of them were doing great things, some of them became great men and famous people because of the revolution, some of them beheaded and dismembered their corpses. However, he returned to his hometown with his feet that were so painful due to the happy event as a young man. He bought a six-oared white wooden boat with the little money he had saved, and rented it to a poor boat owner to load the goods for him and travel between Chadong and Chenzhou. With good luck, the ship would be in good condition within half a year, so with the money he earned, he begged a little widow with a fair face and black hair who had some wealth. A few years later, he had four boats, a shop, and two sons on this river.

But this generous and free-spirited person, although his career is very smooth, but because he likes to make friends, is generous and can help others in need, he cannot have the same violent outbursts as the oil merchants. Since I have lived a life of food, I understand the hardships of people who travel, and understand the mood of frustrated people. Therefore, I will try my best to help all the boatmen who went bankrupt due to shipwrecks, veterans who passed by, scholars who traveled to this place, and anyone who came to this place and was famous for asking for help. While making money from the water, the other side was free and easy. Although this man has a slight problem with his feet, he can still swim. He cannot walk very well, but he is so fair and selfless. Everything on the water is originally extremely simple, and everything is governed by a habit. Which boat collides, or which boat interferes with the interests of another person or another boat, are all solved in customary ways. But to use this kind of custom and rules to regulate everything, there must be a senior and virtuous central figure. One autumn, the original deacon died, and Shun Shun became such a replacement. He was only fifty years old at that time. He was a sensible, upright and peaceful man who did not love money, so no one doubted his age.

As of now, his eldest son is eighteen years old and his youngest son is sixteen years old. Both young men were as strong as young bullocks, capable of sailing, swimming, and walking long distances. They can do everything that young people from small towns and cities can do, and they can do everything well. The older ones, like their father, are bold and open-minded, and do not stick to routines. The younger one has a temperament similar to that of her mother, who has a white face and black hair. She doesn't like to talk, but her eyebrows are prominent. One glance at her shows that she is smart and emotional.

Now that the two brothers have grown up, it is necessary to train them in various aspects of life, so the father takes turns sending the two children to travel. When going down the boat, he often followed his own boat to serve as a companion, sharing the joys and sorrows with others. When rowing, he chooses the heaviest one, and when he pulls the back, he pulls the head and the second fiber. He eats dried fish, spicy peppers, and smelly pickled vegetables, and sleeps on the hard cabin board. Going up the dry road, I followed the passengers and goods from eastern Sichuan, passing through Xiushan and Longtan, and doing business in Youyang. No matter it was cold, hot, rainy or snowy, I would wear straw sandals and rush at the station. He was wearing a short knife, and if he had to use it as a last resort, he would quickly pull out the knife, stand in an open space, wait for the person on the opposite side, and then fight with this person in hand-to-hand combat. The ethos in the gang is that "you must use a knife to deal with enemies, and you must use a knife to connect friends." Therefore, when a knife is needed, they will never let it lose that opportunity. Learn trade, learn to socialize, learn to live in a new place, and learn to use a knife to protect your body and reputation. The purpose of education seems to be to enable the two children to learn the courage and loyalty to be a human being. As a result of a little education, both of them were as strong as tigers, but also kind-hearted, not arrogant, lazy, flashy, and do not rely on power to dominate others. Therefore, when the father and son were mentioned by others on the border of Chadong, everyone respected this name.

When the father's two sons are very young, he realizes that the elder son is similar to him in everything, but he does tend to dote on the second son a little. Because of this unconscious selfishness, he named his eldest son Tianbao and his second son Nuosong. It means that God bless people, and there may be discord in human affairs. As for what the Nuo God sent, according to local customs, people cannot despise it. Nuosong was very beautiful, but the Chadong boat family was too embarrassed to praise this beauty, so they only named him "Yue Yun". Although no one has seen Yue Yun with their own eyes, they have a general impression of Yue Yun, but they got a similar look from the stage actor Yue Yun. three

At the border between the two provinces, the person who has been in charge of the local military for more than ten years has focused on being conservative in Anji, and handled the situation in a lawful manner, and no accidents occurred. Maritime and land commerce was neither affected by war nor affected by bandits. Everything was extremely orderly and the people were content and happy. Except for these people who feel very sad when a cow dies in their family, a boat capsizes, or other major fatal events occur, and they are stumbled by a misfortune, it seems that the people in this border town will never be aware of the misfortunes and struggles in other parts of China.

The most lively days of the year in the border town are the Dragon Boat Festival, Mid-Autumn Festival and Chinese New Year. How these three festivals excited the people of this place thirty or fifty years ago have not changed much until now, and they can still become the most meaningful days for the residents of that place.

On Dragon Boat Festival, local women and children all wear new clothes and have the character "王" drawn on their foreheads with realgar dipped in wine. Anyone can eat fish and meat on this day. At about eleven o'clock in the morning, all the people in Chadong had lunch. After eating, those who lived in the city locked their doors and went out of the city to the river to watch the rowing boats. If you have acquaintances on He Street, you can go to the entrance of the stilted building on He Street to watch. Otherwise, you can stand at the tax gate and various piers to watch. The dragon boat in the river starts somewhere in Changtan and ends in front of the customs. Compete in competitions. Because on this day, military tax collectors and local people with status all watched the excitement in front of the customs. Everyone had made preparations for rowing a few days ago. They were divided into groups and each selected a number of young men with strong bodies and agile hands to practice advancing and retreating in the pool. The shape of the boats is very different from ordinary wooden boats. They are all long and narrow, with both ends raised high, and long red lines painted on the hulls. They are usually placed in dry caves by the river during normal seasons. When they are needed, they are dragged down into the water. Each boat can accommodate twelve to eighteen oarsmen, a leader, a drummer, and a gong player. The oarsmen each hold a short oar and row the boat forward to the slow beat of the drum. Sitting on the bow of the ship, with a red cloth bun wrapped around his head, he held two small flags in his hands and waved them left and right to direct the advancement and retreat of the ship. Those who play drums and gongs usually sit in the middle of the boat. As soon as the boat is rowed, they will immediately start beating the gongs and drums simply to adjust the oar rhythm for the oarsmen. The speed of a boat depends on the sound of drums, so whenever the competition between two boats becomes fierce, the sound of drums is like thunder, coupled with the cheers of people on both sides of the bank, it reminds people of Liang Hongyu's water battle and drum beating in the Old Stork River, and Niu Gao's water battle and drum beating when he captured Yang Yao in the water. Anyone who rows the boat to the front will be rewarded in front of the customs. A red horse and a small silver medal can be hanged on the head of someone on the boat without restraint, which shows the glory of the cooperation of the boat. Good soldiers, and every time a certain ship wins, they will set off some 500 firecrackers at the water's edge to celebrate the victory.

After the boat race, the garrison commander in the city, in order to have fun with the people and increase the joy of this festival, put thirty green-headed and long-necked male ducks with red cloth strips tied around their necks and put them into the river. Soldiers and civilians who were good at swimming went into the water to chase the ducks. Whoever catches the duck becomes the duck's owner. So Changtan changed its appearance. Ducks were everywhere on the water, and there were people chasing ducks everywhere.

The race between boats and men and ducks cannot be completed until nightfall.

Shun Shun, the leader of the water pier, was an expert swimmer when he was young. He chased ducks in the water and never failed under any circumstances. But when the second son, Nuosong, was over twelve years old, he was able to go into the water and immerse himself next to the ducks. Then he suddenly emerged from the water and caught the ducks. But going into the water to save people is a different matter. Anyone who helps people stay away from trouble is entering the fire. Even when a person is eighty years old, it still becomes an unavoidable responsibility for this person!

Both Tianbao and Nuosong are good local swimmers and rowers.

The Dragon Boat Festival is coming soon again. On the fifth day of the Lunar New Year, there is a meeting on Hejie Street and it is decided that the boat belonging to Hejie Street will enter the water that day. Tianbao happened to be traveling up that day, and he followed the overland merchants across Longtan in eastern Sichuan to deliver holiday goods, so only Nuo was the one who participated. Sixteen young men as strong as calves brought incense candles, firecrackers, and a tall drum covered with raw cowhide and painted with a vermilion Tai Chi picture. They went to the cave upstream of the river where the boat was parked. They burned incense candles, dragged the boat into the water, and everyone got on the boat. They lit firecrackers and beat drums. The boat quickly shot down the Changtan downstream like an arrow.

It was still morning at that time, and in the afternoon, the fisherman's dragon boat on the opposite river was also launched into the water, and the two dragon boats began to preview various competition methods. The sound of drums was heard for the first time on the water, and many people felt the joy of the approaching festival from the sound of the drums. Those who live in a stilted building near the river are waiting and looking forward to the people far away, and they all think of those far away because of the sound of drums. During this festival, there must be many ships that can rush back, and many ships that only meet halfway to celebrate the festival. During this period, there are some human affairs, sorrows and joys that are difficult to see. In the river streets of this small mountain city, some people are doing business, and some people are frowning.

The sound of fluffy drums swept across the water and mountains to the ferry bow, and the first thing I noticed was the yellow dog. The yellow dog barked and walked around the house as if it was frightened. When someone passed by, it would cross the east bank of the river with the boat and run to the top of the hill to bark towards the city.

Cuicui was sitting on the big stone outside the door and playing with weaving grasshoppers and centipedes from palm leaves. She saw the yellow dog first fell asleep in the sun, suddenly woke up and ran around like crazy. After crossing the river and coming back again, she asked it and scolded it:

"Dog, dog, what are you doing! Don't do this!"

But after a while she discovered the sound, so she ran around the house, crossed the stream with the yellow dog, and stood on the top of the hill listening for a long time, letting the charming drum sound take her to a past festival.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [3]: Chapter 2

Four

That was two years ago. On Dragon Boat Festival in May, my grandfather found someone to replace him at the ferry head, so he took the yellow dog and Cuicui into the city and crossed the river to watch the boating. The riverside was full of people, and four red long boats were sliding in the pool. The dragon boat water had just risen, and the water in the river was all green. The weather was so bright, the drums were beating loudly, and Cuicui pursed her lips without saying a word. Her heart was filled with indescribable happiness. There were too many people by the river, and everyone looked into the river with their eyes wide open. After a while, the yellow dog was still around, but my grandfather was crowded out of sight.

While Cuicui was paying attention to rowing, she thought to herself, "Grandpa will find him soon." But after a long time, her grandfather still didn't come, so Cuicui became a little panicked. First, the day before the two of them entered the city with the yellow dog, their grandfather asked Cuicui: "Tomorrow, if you go boating in the city alone, will you be afraid of the crowds?" Cuicui said, "I'm not afraid of many people, but it's not fun to be alone." So my grandfather thought for a long time, then remembered an old acquaintance who lived in the city, and went to the city at night to discuss it. He invited the old man to watch the ferry for a day, while he accompanied Cuicui to the city for a day. And because the man was lonelier than the old man on the ferry, with no relatives or a dog around him, he made an appointment with the man to come over to his house in the morning for dinner and a glass of realgar wine. The next day the man came. After having dinner and entrusting the man with his duties, Cuicui and others entered the city. On the way, his grandfather seemed to remember something and asked Cuicui again, "Cui Cui, Cui Cui, there are so many people and it's so lively. Do you dare to go to the river alone to watch the dragon boats?" Cui Cui said, "Why not? But what's the point of being alone?" After arriving at the river, the four red boats in the Changtan completely occupied Cuicui's attention, and her grandfather seemed to be beside her. Grandfather thought to himself: "It's still early, and it will take at least three hours before the end. That friend by the stream should also come and see the excitement of the young people. Go back and change places in time." So he asked Cuicui, "There are too many people, just stand here and watch, don't move. I have something to do elsewhere, and I will come back to accompany you home anyway." Cuicui was fascinated by the two boats racing side by side, and she agreed without thinking about what her grandfather said. Grandfather knew that the yellow dog might be more stable by Cuicui's side than he was by her side, so he went home to watch the boat.

When my grandfather arrived at the ferry, he saw his old friend, Wen, who had replaced him, standing under the white tower and listening to the sound of drums in the distance.

Grandfather called to him and asked him to pull the boat over. The two of them crossed the stream and stood under the white tower. The man asked the old boatman why he came back again, and the grandfather said that he wanted to leave Cuicui by the river for him for a while, and then rushed back so that he could cross the river to see the excitement. Cuicui asked her, Cuicui will go home by then. The little girl doesn't dare to go home, so just go with her for a walk!" But the substitute was no longer interested in watching the dragon boat, but he was willing to drink two more glasses of soju with the old boatman on the big rocks by the stream. The old boatman was very happy, took out the gourd and pushed it to the one from the city. The two of them talked about old Dragon Boat Festival events and drank wine. After a while, the man was drunk on soju on the rock.

The man was drunk and had no way to enter the city, and his grandfather was inconvenient to leave with the ferry because of his responsibility. Cuicui, who stayed by the river, had to be anxious.

After the rowers in the river decided the final outcome, the city officer had already sent someone to release a group of ducks in a small boat in the pond, but my grandfather had not yet come. Cuicui was afraid that her grandfather was waiting for her somewhere, so she took the yellow dog and walked through the crowds to look for her grandfather, but she still couldn't find any trace of her grandfather. Later, I saw that it was getting dark, and the soldiers who had carried the benches out of the city to watch the excitement had already carried the benches home one after another. There are only three or five ducks left in the pond, and the number of duck catchers is gradually decreasing. The setting sun sets towards the side of Cuicui's house upstream, and the river surface is decorated with a layer of mist at dusk. When Cuicui saw this scene, she suddenly had a frightening thought. She thought, "What if grandpa dies?"

She remembered her grandfather's words about telling her not to leave the place where she came from, and she explained her error in thinking. She thought that if her grandfather didn't come, he must have gone to the city or to an acquaintance, and was dragged to drink, so he couldn't come for a while. Because this was possible, and she didn't want to rush home with the yellow dog before it got dark, she had no choice but to stand by the stone pier and wait for her grandfather.

After a while, the two long boats across the river were moored in the creek across the river and disappeared, and almost all the people watching the dragon boats dispersed. The houses where prostitutes live on stilted houses have lights on, and there are people playing small spotted drums, playing yueqin and singing songs. In other houses, there were noisy sounds of fist-fighting and drinking. At the same time, on some boats moored under the stilted building, people were setting out wine and cooking, making a squeaking sound when they poured vegetables, radishes and the like into the hot oil pan. The surface of the river was hazy, and it looked like there was only one duck floating in the pool, and only one person was left chasing the duck.

Cuicui still did not leave the dock, always believing that her grandfather would come to her and go home with her.

The sound of singing songs on the stilted building became more lively, and I could only hear people talking on the boat below. One sailor said: "Jin Ting, you heard your shop singing songs with the merchants from eastern Sichuan while drinking. I bet my finger that this is her voice!" Another sailor said: "She drank and sang songs with them, and I thought Rico misses me. She knows I'm on the ship!" The previous one said: "My body is being played by others, but my heart is still thinking of you; what evidence do you have?" The other said: "There is evidence." Then the sailor whistled and made a strange sign, and after a while, the singing stopped. When the singing stopped, both sailors laughed. The two then talked about everything about that woman, using a lot of vulgar words. Cuicui was not used to hearing such words, but she couldn't walk away. One of the sailors said that the father of the woman upstairs was killed in Mianmianpo, with a total of seventeen stab wounds. The strange thought in Cuicui's mind, "Grandpa is dead?" still occupied her heart for a while.

The two sailors were still talking, and the white duck in the pond slowly swam towards the dock where Cuicui was. Cuicui thought: "If you come closer, I will catch you!" So she waited quietly, but when the duck was about three feet away from the shore, someone smiled and called to the sailor on the boat. It turned out that there was another person in the water. The person had caught the duck, but he slowly "kicked the water" and swam closer to the shore. The people on the boat heard the shouts from the water and faintly shouted: "Second old man, second old man, you are really good, you must have got five today." The man on the water said: "This guy is very cunning, now it belongs to me." "You must have the same ability to catch ducks now and women in the future." The one on the water said no more, patted the water with his hands and feet and came to the dock. When she climbed onto the shore dripping wet, the yellow dog next to Cuicui barked a few times as if to warn the person in the water, and then the person noticed Cuicui. There was no one else on the pier, so the man asked:

"Who is it?"

"It's Cuicui!"

"Who is Cuicui?"

"She's Bixi's granddaughter who runs the ferry."

"What are you doing here?"

"I'm waiting for my grandpa. I'm waiting for him to come so I can go home."

"He won't come when he comes. Your grandfather must have been drinking in the military camp in the city. He was drunk and was carried back!"

"He won't. If he promises to come, he will definitely come."

"There's no point in waiting here. Go to my house, go upstairs to the lit room over there, and wait for grandpa to come find you, okay?"

Cuicui misunderstood the kindness of the man who invited him into the house. She was remembering the scandal about women told by the sailor. She thought that the man wanted her to go upstairs where women were singing. She had never cursed anyone. At this time, because she had been waiting for her grandfather for too long, she was very anxious. When she heard that she was asked to go up, she thought she had been insulted, so she said softly:

"You're the one who chops off your head at the wrong time!"

Although the words were spoken softly, the man could hear Cuicui's age from his voice, so he said with a smile: "Why, you're swearing! If you don't want to go up, you have to stay here. If you turn around and a big fish comes to bite you in the water, don't scream!"

Cuicui said: "I don't care about you even if the fish bites you."

The yellow dog seemed to understand that Cuicui was being bullied, and started barking again. The man raised the white duck in his hand, frightened the yellow dog, and walked onto the river street. The yellow dog wanted to chase him because he was being bullied, so Cuicui shouted: "Dog, dog, even if you bark at people, you don't want to bark!" Cuicui seemed to mean to ask the dog, "That frivolous man is not worthy of barking," but what the man heard was another kind of good intention. The man thought she was asking the dog not to bark at good people, smiled wildly, and disappeared.

After a while, someone took a torch made from waste cables from He Street and called Cuicui's name to look for her. When he arrived, Cuicui didn't recognize the person. The man said: The old boatman returned home and could not come to pick her up, so he took a transit letter and asked Cuicui if he wanted her to go back immediately. Cuicui heard that it was sent by her grandfather, so she went home with the man, letting the torchlighter lead the way. The yellow dog walked forward and backward together along the city wall towards the ferry. As Cuicui walked, she asked the person holding the torch. Whoever asked him would know that she was by the river (jingdianbook.com). The man said that the second elder asked him. He was a clerk in the second elder's house, and he had to go back to He Street after sending Cuicui home.

Cuicui said: "How did the second old man know that I was by the river?"

The man smiled and said, "He came back from catching ducks in the river and met you on the pier. He said he would like to invite you to sit at home and wait for your grandpa, and you even scolded him!"

Cuicui asked softly with a little surprise: "Who is the second elder?"

The man was also a little surprised and said: "You don't know about the two elders? It's the Nuosong Erlao from our He Street! It's Yue Yun! He asked me to take you back!" Nuosong Erlao is not an unfamiliar name in Chadong!

Cuicui thought of her previous curse words and felt surprised and shy. She said nothing more and silently followed the torch.

After crossing the hill and seeing the light of the fire in the house across the river, Cuicui also saw the torch on Cuicui's side. The old boatman immediately pulled the boat over. While pulling the boat, he shouted hoarsely: "Cui Cui, Cuicui, is it you?" Cuicui ignored her grandfather and said, But Zhong said softly: "It's not Cuicui, it's not Cuicui. Cuicui has been eaten by the carp in the river." Cuicui got on the boat, and the people sent by the two elders left with torches. Grandfather took the boat and asked: "Cui Cui, why don't you agree to me, are you angry with me?"

Cuicui stood at the bow of the boat and remained silent. Cuicui complained about her grandfather a little, but it was over after she pulled the boat across the stream, arrived at home, and saw the other drunk old man clearly. But another thing, which belonged to her and had nothing to do with her grandfather, made Cuicui silent for a whole night. five

Two years have passed.

In the past two years, there happened to be no moon to see during the two Mid-Autumn Festivals. In the border towns, the stories of men and women singing all night long because of the moon could not be held as scheduled. Therefore, the impression left by the two Mid-Autumn Festivals on Cuicui was extremely ordinary. During the two New Years, as usual, you can see lions and dragon lanterns from the military camp and from all over the country, welcoming the spring in the small teaching ground, and the sound of gongs and drums is very lively. On the night of the 15th, the soldiers who performed dragon and lion dances in the city went to welcome the firecrackers and fireworks with their bare shoulders. In the military barracks in the city, the Customs Commissioner's residence, and some large shops on the river streets, all of them cut old moso bamboo tubes or hollowed out the roots of palm trees, mixed sulfur charcoal steel sand with saltpeter, and beat them from one thousand to eight hundred times to prepare the fireworks. The brave and fun-loving sergeant, naked to the waist, came playing with lanterns and drums. Small firecrackers hung like rain from the air, hanging from the tip of the long pole, onto the shoulders and backs of the lantern players. The gongs and drums made rapid beats. Everyone was very excited about this. After the firecrackers were set off for a while, a large tube light tied to a bench lit a fuse at one end of the open space. First, there was a hissing white light, and then slowly the white light roared, making an astonishing sound like thunder and a tiger. The white light rushed upwards, reaching a height of twenty feet, and when it fell, it scattered flowers and rain all over the sky. The soldiers playing with the lanterns circled around in the sparks, as if they didn't care. Cuicui and his grandfather had also seen such liveliness and left a lively impression, but for some unknown reason, this impression was not as sweet and beautiful as what happened during the Dragon Boat Festival.

In order not to forget that incident, Cuicui and her grandfather went to the river street near the city to watch the boats for a long time on the Dragon Boat Festival last year. When everything was going well, it suddenly started raining, and no one's clothes were soaked by the rain. In order to take shelter from the rain, the grandfather and grandson and the yellow dog walked up to the Shunshun stilted building and huddled in a corner. Someone was passing by carrying a stool. Cuicui recognized that person as the person who sent her home with a torch last year, so she told her grandfather:

"Grandpa, that man sent me home last year. When he walked with a torch, he really looked like a minion!"

Grandfather remained silent at that time. When the man turned around and walked past again, he grabbed the man and said with a smile:

"Hey, hey, you're such a person! I can't even let you come to my house for a drink. I'm afraid the wine will be poisonous and poison you, the right man, to death!"

When the man saw that he was guarding the ferry and saw Cuicui, he smiled. "Cui Cui, you've grown so big! The second elder said that big fish would eat you if you were by the river. The fish in our river here can't swallow you now."

Cuicui didn't say a word, just pursed her lips and smiled.

This time, although I heard the name "Second Elder" from the mouth of this minion for many years, I have never seen this person. From the conversation between her grandfather and Na Nian, Cuicui understood that the two elders spent the Dragon Boat Festival at Qinglangtan, 600 miles downstream. But this time I didn't see the two elders, but I got to know the "eldest elder" and met the famous Shun Shun. After Da Lao caught the duck in the river and brought it home, Shunshun asked Da Lao to give the duck to Cuicui because the old guy guarding the ferry praised the fat duck twice. Knowing that the life of the grandfather and grandson was very tight, he could not make rice dumplings during the festival, so he gave many pointed rice dumplings as gifts.

When the celebrity on the water was talking to her grandfather, Cuicui pretended to look at the scenery in the river, but her ears heard every word clearly. The man told his grandfather that Cuicui was very beautiful, asked how old Cuicui was, and asked if she had any family. Grandfather happily praised Cuicui a lot, and seemed not to allow others to care about Cuicui's marriage, so he kept silent about it when it came to it.

When returning home, my grandfather hugged the white duck and other things, and Cuicui lit a torch to lead the way. The two walked along the city wall, with the city on one side and the water on the other. Grandfather said: "Shunshun is a really good man, very generous. The elder is also very kind. This family is all good!" Cuicui said: "The whole family is good, do you know their family?" Grandfather did not understand the meaning of this sentence, because he was too happy today, so he smiled and said: "Cui Cui, if the elder wants you to be his wife and hires someone to be a matchmaker, will you agree?" Cuicui said: "Grandpa, you are crazy! If you say anything else, I will be angry with you!"

Although my grandfather stopped talking, it was obvious that these ridiculous and bad thoughts were still running through his mind. Cuicui was annoyed, swaying the torch to both sides of the road, and walked forward sadly.

"Cui Cui, don't make trouble. If I fall into the river, the duck will escape!"

"No one cares about that duck!"

Grandfather understood why Cuicui was unhappy, so he sang the song of the oar-wager urging the oar to go to the beach. Although his voice was hoarse, his words were steady and unambiguous. Cuicui walked forward while listening, and suddenly stopped and asked:

"Grandpa, is your boat going down to Qinglang Beach?"

The grandfather didn't say anything, but continued to sing. Both of them remembered that the boat of the two elders of the Shunshun family was celebrating the festival in Qinglangtan, but neither of them understood where the other person's memory ended. The grandfather and grandson walked back home in silence. When they arrived at the ferry, the boat watcher was mooring the boat on the shore and waiting for them. Several people crossed the stream to their home and peeled rice dumplings to eat. When they arrived, the man was going to the city. Cuicui immediately lit a torch for the man so that he could light the way. When they crossed the stream and went up the hill, Cuicui and her grandfather watched from the boat. Cuicui said:

"Grandpa, look at me going up the mountain!"

Grandfather held his hand on the horizontal cable and looked at the mist on the stream. He seemed to see something and let out a sigh of relief. When my grandfather quietly pulled the boat past his house on the other side, he asked Cuicui to go ashore first, but he stayed by the boat. Because it was the festival, he knew that there would be country people coming to the city to see the dragon boats, and they would have to rush home in the dark. six

During the day, the old boatman had an argument with a transit man selling leather paper on the ferry. One could not accept the money given, but the other had to give the money to the old man. It seemed that the old boatman was a little oppressed because of the way the ferryman presented the money. The ferryman seemed angry and forced the man to take the money back, so that the man had to hold the money in his hand. But when the boat came to shore, the man jumped onto the pier, threw a hand of copper coins into the cabin, and hurried away with a smile. The old boatman had to hold the boat to let others ashore. He couldn't chase the person, so he called the girl on the hilltop:

"Cui Cui, Cuicui, help me hold the young man selling vellum, don't let him leave!"

Cuicui didn't know what happened, so she went with the yellow dog to stop the first person coming down the mountain. The man smiled and said:

"Don't stop me!..."

Just as he was talking, the second businessman came and told Cuicui what was going on. Cuicui understood, and even held on to the paper seller's clothes, saying, "Don't leave! Don't leave!" In order to show that he agreed with his owner, the yellow dog barked beside Cuicui. The other businessmen all laughed and could not walk for a while. Grandfather rushed over out of breath, forced the money into the man's hand, put a bunch of cigarettes on the merchant's load, rubbed his hands and said with a smile: "Let's go! You go on the road!" Then those people all left with a smile.

Cuicui said: "Grandpa, I thought that man stole your things and fought with you!"

Grandfather said:

"He gave me a lot of money. I don't want the money! I sue him for not asking for the money, and he still quarrels with me, which is unreasonable!"

Cuicui said: "Have you returned everything to him?"

Grandfather pursed his lips and shook his head, pretending to be a cunning and proud smile, took out the single copper coin tied in his belt and gave it to Cuicui. Let’s say:

"If he gets our handful of tobacco leaves, he can eat them all the way to Zhenyu City!"

The drums sounded loudly in the distance again, and the yellow dog opened his ears to listen. Cuicui asked her grandfather if he heard anything. When my grandfather paid attention and knew what the sound was, he said:

"Cui Cui, the Dragon Boat Festival is here again. Do you remember that fat duck that Tianbao Elder gave you last year? In the morning, I went up to Sichuan East with a group of people, and asked you during the transition. You must have forgotten the rain that fell. If we go this time, we have to light a torch to go home; do you remember that the two of us used torches to light the way home?"

Cuicui is still thinking about everything that happened during the Dragon Boat Festival two years ago. But when her grandfather asked, Cuicui looked slightly annoyed, shook her head, and deliberately said: "I can't remember, I can't remember." In fact, what she meant was "Why can't I remember?!"

Grandfather understood what he meant and said, "It was even more interesting the year before last. You were waiting for me by the river alone. I almost didn't know when I came back. I thought the big fish would eat you!"

Cuicui laughed when she mentioned old things.

"Grandpa, do you still think the big fish will eat me? Someone else complained about me, so I sued you! You just wanted to let that grandpa in the city eat the gourd filled with wine that day! You have such a memory!"

"I am old and my memory is very bad. Cuicui, now that you have grown up, you will definitely dare to go to the city to watch the boats alone and you will not be afraid of the fish eating you."

"When you grow up, you should guard the ship."

"Only when people are old can they guard the ship."

"People should take a rest when they get old!"

"Your grandfather can still fight tigers, and people are not old!" Grandfather said, then he bent his arms, trying to make the muscles appear strong and young in the muscles, and said: "Cui Cui, if you don't believe it, just bite."

Cuicui stared at her grandfather, who had a slightly hunched back and white hair, but said nothing. There was a sound of suona playing in the distance. She knew what it was and knew the direction of the suona. She asked her grandfather to get off the boat with her and pull the boat past the shore near her home. In order to see the wedding sedan as soon as possible, Cuicui climbed to the tower behind the house and looked out. Not long after, the group of people came, including two suona players, four strong country men, an empty sedan chair, a young man who looked like the son of the regiment president in new clothes, and two sheep, a child leading the sheep, a jar of wine, a box of glutinous rice cakes, and a person carrying gifts. After a group of people got on the ferry, Cuicui and her grandfather also got on the ferry. Her grandfather pulled the boat, but Cuicui stood beside the sedan to admire everyone's faces and the tassels on the sedan. After reaching the shore, the man who looked like the son of the regiment leader took out a small red paper envelope from the belly of the buckle flower bag and handed it to the old boatman. This is a rule, and my grandfather can no longer say no to it. But after getting the money, my grandfather spoke. He asked the man where the bride was from. He understood, and then asked what her last name was. He understood, and then asked how old she was. They all figured it out together. As soon as the suona player came ashore, he started blowing the suona again, and the group walked over the mountain. Grandfather and Cuicui stayed on the boat, their emotions seemed to be chasing the sound of the suona, and they walked a long way back to themselves.

Grandfather weighed the red paper envelope and said, "Cui Cui, the new bride in the Song family is only fifteen years old."

Cuicui understood the meaning of her grandfather's words, ignored it, and quietly pulled the boat up.

When they got home, Cuicui ran home to get a double-barreled suona made of small bamboo, and asked her grandfather to sit on the bow of the boat and play the song "Mother Sends Daughter" to her. However, she and the yellow dog lay in the shade on the big rock in front of the door and watched the clouds in the sky. The day was getting longer, and at some point, my grandfather fell asleep, and so did Cuicui and the yellow dog.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [4]: ​​Chapter 3

seven

It’s the Dragon Boat Festival. Grandfather and Cuicui had made an appointment three days ago. Grandfather was guarding the boat, and Cuicui and the yellow dog crossed the Shunshun stilted building to watch the excitement. Cuicui didn't agree at first, but then agreed. But one day later, Cuicui regretted it and came back, thinking that she wanted to see two people, and two people to guard the boat. Grandfather understood this meaning, which was the result of the war between Cuicui's playfulness and love. Because of my grandfather’s ties, I can’t play even when I should. This can’t be done! Grandfather said with a smile: "Cui Cui, why are you doing this? You have agreed and then regretted it, which is inconsistent with the usual moral character of the Chadong people. We should say one thing is one thing and not be half-hearted. My memory is not bad enough to forget what you promised me immediately!" Even though my grandfather said that, it was obvious that he agreed with Cuicui's plan. But he was so good that my grandfather felt a little unhappy. Seeing that her grandfather stopped talking, Cuicui said, "I'm leaving, who will accompany you?"

Grandfather said: "You leave, the boat will accompany me."

Cuicui frowned and smiled bitterly, "The boat is with you, hi, hi, the boat is with you. Grandpa, you are really..."

Grandfather thought to himself: "You will have to leave one day." But he did not dare to mention it. Grandfather had nothing to say for a moment, so he walked to the small garden under the tower behind the house to see green onions, and Cuicui followed.

"Grandpa, I have decided not to go. I want to let the boat go. I will accompany you on the boat's behalf!"

"Okay, Cuicui, if you don't go, I will go. I have to wear a red flower and pretend to be Mr. Liu when he goes to the city to see the world!"

Both of them laughed for a long time at this sentence.

Grandpa was tending green onions, but Cuicui picked a green onion and blew it. Someone was calling for a transition on the east bank. Cuicui didn't let her grandfather take the lead, so she hurriedly ran down, jumped on the ferry, and pulled the boat across the river to pick up the people with the help of the Hengxi cable. While pulling the boat, he called his grandfather:

"Grandpa, you sing, you sing!"

My grandfather didn't sing, but he just stood on the high rock and looked at the greenery, shaking his hands without saying a word.

Grandpa is worried. Cuicui has grown up with many worries.

Cuicui is getting older day by day, and she will blush when she accidentally mentions something. Time was growing her, and seemed to be urging her to take some responsibility for another thing. She was happy to see the newlyweds with their faces covered with powder, to tell stories about the newlyweds, to put wild flowers on her head, and to listen to people singing. She could already appreciate the lingering quality of the Chadong people's singing. Sometimes she seems a little lonely. She likes to sit on a rock and stare at the stars in the sky. If her grandfather asked, "Cui Cui, what are you thinking about?" she would be a little shy and say softly, "I'm watching the ducks fight!" According to local custom, it meant "Cui Cui is not thinking about anything." But at the same time, she asked herself: "Cui Cui, what are you really thinking about?" She also answered in her heart: "I think very far, a lot. But I don't know what I'm thinking about." She was indeed thinking, and indeed she didn't even know what she was thinking about. Although this girl's body is fully developed, a "wonderful thing" that naturally comes from her age comes at the end of the month, which also makes her think more and dream more.

Grandfather understood the impact of such things on a woman, and his mood changed a little. My grandfather is a man who has lived in nature for seventy years, but there are some natural phenomena in human affairs that cannot be left out. Because Cuicui's growth made her grandfather remember some old things and rediscover some things from the stories buried in a lot of time.

Cuicui's mother was just like Cuicui at one time. The eyebrows are long, the eyes are big, and the skin is red. He is also so well-behaved that people love him - he also knows how to do small things, such as raising his eyes and moving his eyebrows, to make the elders in the family happy. It seems that I will never be separated from this one in my family. But a bit of misfortune came when she met the soldier. In the end, he left the old and the young behind, but died with the soldier. According to the old boatman, no one is to blame for these things, only "Heaven" should be responsible. Cuicui's grandfather said he didn't complain, but in his heart he couldn't completely agree with this unfortunate arrangement. It is really unfair to allocate one's own share! To say that he has let go is exactly what Mo Kenai, who cannot let go, tolerate!

There was still Cuicui at that time. Now, if Cuicui is the same as her mother, can she still raise the little chick at the old boatman's age? Man wants God but He doesn’t! People are too old and should rest. All the hard work and misfortune that a good countryman deserves has been received. If there is a God in another high place, and this God has one hand to control everything, it is obvious and a very reasonable way to take the grandfather back first, and then let the young man receive his due blessing or misfortune in his new life. It is only reasonable.

But my grandfather didn't think so. He was worried about Cuicui. Sometimes he would lie on the rock outside the door and think about Xingzi. He thought that death was coming soon, just because Cuicui had grown up, which proved that he was really old. No matter what, Cuicui must be found somewhere. Since Cuicui was handed over to him by her poor mother, and Cuicui is old, he has to hand Cuicui over to someone before his affairs are over! To whom? What kind of person is needed to not wrong her?

A few days ago, when the Tianbao elder of the Shunshun family was crossing a stream, he was talking to his grandfather. The first thing this outspoken young man said was:

"Old uncle, your Cuicui is so beautiful, you look like Guanyin. In another two years, if I have free time and can stay in Chadong to take care of things, instead of flying around like a crow, I will definitely come to this stream every night to sing for Cuicui."

Grandfather rewarded this confession with a smile. While pulling the boat, he looked at the elder with his little eyes.

So the elder said again:

"Cui Cui is too delicate. I'm worried that she can only listen to the singing of the Chadong people and cannot do all the serious things that a Chadong girl does as a wife. I want a lover who can listen to my singing, but I cannot lack a wife who can take care of the housework. 'I want the horse not to eat grass, and I want the horse to walk well.' Alas, these two sentences are exactly what the ancients said to me!"

Grandfather slowly turned the boat around, letting the stern of the boat reach the shore, and said:

"Big boss, there is such a thing! Just watch." What exactly it was, my grandfather didn't know what to say. After the young man left, my grandfather reviewed the true words spoken by a man, feeling really sad and happy. If Cuicui should be handed over to someone, is this person suitable to take care of Cuicui? If you really hand him over, is Cuicui willing? eight

There was a little drizzle early in the morning on the fifth day of the Lunar New Year, and a bit of "dragon boat water" rose upstream, turning the river into a pea-green color. My grandfather went to the city to celebrate the comprador festival, wearing a Zongba leaf "cloak", carrying a basket, a big gourd for wine, a dagger hanging on his shoulder, in which he put a sling of six hundred coins, and then left. Because it was a festival, on this day many people brought copper coins and carried goods from small villages to the city to handle the goods. These people also got up very early, so after my grandfather left, the yellow dog accompanied Cuicui to guard the boat. Cuicui wore a brand new cloak on her head and sent the transition people back and forth one after another. The yellow dog sits on the bow of the boat. Whenever the boat approaches the shore, he will jump on the shore to grab the end of the rope, which arouses the interest of everyone passing by. Some transitional country people also bring their dogs to the city. As the saying goes, "a dog cannot leave the house." Once they leave their home, they become very honest even if they stay with their owners. During the transition, Cuicui's dog would walk over and sniff, and get a look from Cuicui. It seemed that he understood what Cuicui meant and didn't dare to do anything. After landing on the shore and finishing pulling the rope, he saw the strange dog going up the hill and chased after it. Either barking softly at the dog owner, or chasing the strange dog, Cuicui would shout with a little annoyance: "Dog, dog, what are you crazy about? You still have things to do, so just run away!" So the yellow dog hurried back to the boat, and was still full of people sniffing around the boat. Cuicui said: "What kind of frivolous behavior is this? Who did you learn it from! Why don't you squat over there!" The dog seemed to be very sensible, and immediately went to its original place, only occasionally barking softly as if it remembered something.

The rain kept falling, and there was smoke on the stream. When Cuicui had nothing to do on the boat, she would count the old boatman's schedule. She knew where he should go and who he would meet and what he would talk about. What should be happening at the city gate and what should be happening on the river and street that day. "Everything in my heart" was as clear to her as what she saw with her eyes. She also knew her grandfather's temper. When she saw a familiar person in the city, whether it was a horseman or a fireman, she would always say the appropriate blessings during the festival. One side says, "Master, you eat and drink enough during the festival!" The other side will also say, "Owingsmen, you eat and drink enough!" If one side says the above, the other side says, "What can I eat and drink to satiate? Four ounces of meat and two bowls of wine will neither make you full nor get you drunk!" Then my grandfather must be honest and invite this acquaintance to come to Bixi Nuo and drink enough. If someone wanted to take a sip of the wine from his grandfather's gourd, the old boatman was never stingy and would quickly hand over the gourd. After drinking the wine, the man in the barracks would lick his lips and praise the wine, so he would be forced to take a second sip. In this situation, the wine started to run low, so I went back to the original bunk and filled it up. Cuicui also knew that her grandfather would go to the pier to talk to the sailors who had just arrived a day or two ashore, asking about the price of rice and salt down the river. Sometimes he would bend down and get into the cabin that smelled of kelp, squid, oil, vinegar, and firewood smoke. As soon as my grandfather came to the river street, there must be many merchants in the shops giving him rice dumplings and other things. As a sign of respect for this loyal rower, although my grandfather shouted, "I brought so many, I will break my old bones when I go back," but no matter what, these things must be received in some way. When he walked to the butcher table, he wanted to "buy meat" but was unwilling to take the money. If the butcher didn't take the money, he would rather go to another shop instead of taking advantage. The butcher said, "Grandpa, why are you so stubborn? I'm not asking you to plow the fields!" But no, he thought it was blood money, no more than other things. If you didn't accept the money, he would calculate the money in advance, throw the money into a big and long money tube, grab the meat and leave. The butcher knows his temperament. When he weighs the meat, he always chooses the best part and deliberately increases the weight. When he sees it, he will say: "Hey, big boss, I don't want those benefits from you! The meat on the legs is what the city people use to stir-fry shredded squid. Don't joke with me! I want the neck meat. I I want it to be thick and glutinous, I am a rower, I want to use it to stew carrots and drink!" After getting the meat, when he handed over the money, he counted it once, and then asked the butcher to count again, but the butcher ignored him as usual and threw the money towards the mouth of the long bamboo tube. Then he walked away with a charming smile. The butcher and other meat buyers would burst into laughter when they saw his demeanor...

Cuicui also knew that her grandfather would go to Shunshun's house on He Street.

Cuicui reviewed everything she had seen and heard during the two festivals, and felt very happy in her heart. It seemed that there was something like the elusive sunflower she saw when she closed her eyes in bed in the morning. This thing seemed to be very clear in front of her eyes, but she couldn't see clearly or catch it.

Cuicui thought: "Is there really a tiger in Baiji Pass?" She didn't know why she suddenly thought of Baiji Pass. Baijiguan is the name of a place in the middle of Youshui River, more than 200 miles away from Chadong!

Then she thought: "Thirty-two people rocking six oars, setting up a big tent when going up to the water, and a piece of a hundred white cloths, crossing Dongting Lake on such a big ship, how ridiculous..." She didn't understand how big Dongting Lake was, and she had never seen such a big ship. What was even more ridiculous was that she didn't know why she thought of this problem!

A group of transitional people came, with burdens, people who looked like they were running away on official business, and a mother and daughter. The mother wore a tough blue cloth dress that had been washed with new starch. The girl's face was painted red and she wore new clothes that didn't fit well. She went to the city to visit a relative's house to pay homage to the festival and watch the dragon boat. After waiting for everyone to get on the boat and stabilize, Cuicui looked at the little girl while pulling the boat across the stream. From Cuicui's estimation, the child was about thirteen or fourteen years old, but he looked very delicate, as if he had never left his mother. On his feet were a pair of newly oiled spikes with pointed toes, stained with some yellow mud. The pants are made of purple green cloth. Seeing Cuicui looking at her, she also looked at Cuicui, her eyes as bright as two crystal balls. A little shy, a little uncomfortable, and at the same time a little bit indescribably coquettish. The woman who looked like a mother asked Cuicui how old she was. Cuicui smiled, not happy to agree, but asked how old the little girl was. Cuicui couldn't help but laugh when her mother said that she was thirteen years old. The mother and daughter were obviously the wives and daughters of a rich man, and that was evident from their demeanor. Cuicui looked at the girl and noticed that the girl was wearing a pair of twisted silver bracelets on her hands, which were shining whitely, and she felt a little envious in her heart. After the boat docked, people came ashore one after another. The woman took out a copper coin from her body, stuffed it into Cuicui's hand, and left. Cuicui actually forgot her grandfather's rules at that time. She didn't say thank you or return the money. She just stared at the girl in the group in a daze. When the group was about to cross the hill, Cuicui suddenly caught up with her and returned the money to the woman on the top of the hill. The woman said, "This is for you!" Cuicui didn't say anything, just smiled and shook her head. Before the woman could say a second sentence, she quickly ran towards her ferry.

When we got to the ferry, someone on the other side of the stream called for transition again, and Cuicui pulled the boat back. There were seven people in the second transition, including two girls. They also changed into clean clothes because of watching the dragon boat, but their appearance was not very beautiful, so Cuicui could not forget the previous one.

There were a lot of people making the transition today, and among them there were more girls than usual. Since Cuicui was pulling the cable on the boat for the ferry, she saw something good-looking, extremely weird, well-behaved, and her eyes were red, which left an impression in her memory. When no one was around, I waited for my grandfather and grandpa to come, so I just reviewed the looks of these girls over and over again. And sang softly and nonchalantly:

"When a tiger comes out of Baiji Pass and bites people, it doesn't bite others. The young ladies of the regiment are number one. ... The eldest sister wears a gold hairpin, the second sister wears a silver hairpin. Only my third sister doesn't wear anything. She wears a bean sprout on her ear all year round."

Someone in the city went to the countryside. In front of a hotel on the river street, he once saw the old man who was holding the ferry. He gave the gourd mouth to a young sailor and invited the sailor to drink his newly bought white soju. When Cuicui asked, the city man told her what he had seen. Cuicui laughed at the wrong time and the wrong place for her grandfather's generosity. After the transition man left, Cuicui was on the boat again softly humming the wizard's song of welcoming the gods in December——

You great immortal, you great god, open your eyes and look at the people here!

They are honest, young, and free of diseases.

They adults know how to drink, work, and sleep;

Their children can grow up and endure hunger and cold;

Their oxen are willing to plow the fields, their goats are ready to give birth, and their chickens and ducks are ready to hatch eggs;

Their woman can raise a son, sing, and find a lover that makes her happy!

You great gods, you great immortals, come and stand on both sides.

Master Guan is riding on a red rabbit horse,

Duke Yuchi is holding a big iron whip!

You great immortal, you great god, descend slowly from the clouds!

Zhang Guo, the old donkey, must sit still.

Tieguai Li, be careful where you step!

Continuous blessings are divine grace,

The gods of wind and rain are kind,

Good wine and good food are in front of us,

Fat pigs and fat sheep are cooked on the fire!

Hong Xiuquan, Li Hongzhang,

You are the overlords in life,

Everyone has his own way of killing people and setting fires.

Why not come and sit down today?

Eat slowly, drink slowly,

The moon is white and the wind is clear, making it easy to cross the river.

When we are drunk, we go home together hand in hand,

I will sing for you again!

The sound of that song is very soft, happy and slightly melancholy. After singing this song, Cuicui felt a little sad in her heart. She thought of the fields filled with fire and drums and horns at the end of autumn when the gods were honored and their wishes fulfilled.

The drums were beating in the distance, and she knew that the dragon boat with the long vermilion line had already entered the river at this time, and the drizzle was still falling, and there was smoke on the stream. Nine

When my grandfather came home, it was almost the usual breakfast time. His shoulders and hands were full of things. As soon as he reached the top of the hill, he called Cuicui and asked Cuicui to pull the boat across the creek to meet him. Cui Cui saw how many people had entered the city and was helpless on the boat. When she heard her grandfather's voice, she became energetic and answered sharply: "Grandpa, grandpa, I'm coming!" After the old boatman got on the ferry from the pier, he put the things on his shoulders on the bow. While helping Cui Cui pull the boat, he smiled at Cui Cui, like a child, with an air full of humility and shyness. "Cui Cui, you are so impatient, aren't you?" Cuicui should have complained about her grandfather, but instead she replied: "Grandpa, I know you are having a lot of fun convincing people to drink on the river street." Cuicui also knew that her grandfather was very happy to go to the river street to play, but saying this would make her grandfather even more shy and yelling, so she did not say anything.

Cuicui took note of everything placed on the bow of the boat, but the wine gourd was missing. Cuicui sneered.

"Grandpa, you are so generous. You invited the deputy to have wine with the people on the ship, and even the gourd was eaten!"

Grandfather smiled and explained:

"Where, where, my gourd was seized by Uncle Shunshun. When he saw me inviting people to drink on the river street, he said: 'Hey, hey, ferryman Zhang Heng, this can't be done. If you don't open a trough, how can you do this! Take your gourd Put it down and drink it all." He said it seriously, "Please drink it all." But I guess he was joking with me. Cuicui, you said..."

"Grandpa, do you think that people who really want to drink your wine are just joking with you?"

"What's that about?"

"Don't worry, they must have held back your gourd because you are not in the right place to treat guests, and they will not let you invite people to finish the wine. They will bring it to you later, you still don't understand, it's true! -"

"Oh, it really is like this!"

After saying that the boat had reached the shore, Cuicui rushed to help her grandfather move things, but in the end she only took the fish and the flower bag; the money in the bag had been used up, but there was a bag of sugar and a bag of small sesame cakes. As soon as the two of them carried the newly bought things to their home, someone shouted to Cuicui from across the stream. Grandpa wanted Cuicui to watch the meat and vegetables so that they would not be dragged away by wild cats. They rushed to go down to the stream to do things. After a while, he and the transition man came to the house shouting. It turns out that this person is the one who delivers the wine gourd. I only heard my grandfather say: "Cui Cui, you guessed it right. I really sent the wine gourd!"

Before Cuicui had time to walk to the stove, her grandfather, a young man with a dark face and broad shoulders, entered the house.

Cuicui and the guests all smiled and asked her grandfather to continue. The guest looked at Cui Cui and smiled again. Cui Cui seemed to understand why she was being looked at. She felt a little embarrassed and went to the stove to light the fire. Someone at the stream called for crossing again, and Cuicui hurriedly ran out the door and got on the boat to help people cross the stream. Someone happened to be crossing the stream again. Although it was raining lightly, there were so many people passing by, three times in a row. While Cuicui was working on the boat, she remembered the interesting things about her grandfather. Somehow, the man who was sent from the city to deliver the wine gourd seemed to her like an acquaintance. But the eyes looked familiar, but I didn't know where they had met. But it's just like he doesn't want to think of this person in a certain way, so he can't guess the identity of this person.

Grandfather shouted from the top of the rock ridge: "Cui Cui, Cuicui, come up and have a rest and accompany the guests!" At first, when no one was around, he wanted to go ashore to light a fire, but after his grandfather shouted, he refused to go ashore.

A visitor asked my grandfather if he could go into the city to watch the ferry. The old ferryman said that he should watch the ferry. The two talked about other things. Later we returned to the Hakka dialect:

"Uncle, you Cuicui look like an adult now, you are very good-looking!"

The ferryman smiled. "My tone is the same as my elder brother's, which is quite refreshing." After thinking this way, he said: "Second elder, you are the only one worthy of praise in this place. People say you are good-looking! 'The leopard in Bamian Mountain and the golden pheasant in Didixi' are all epigrams specifically praising your merits!"

"But that's unfair."

"Fair enough! I heard from the people on the boat that the last time you escorted the boat, the boat had an accident at Baijiguan Beach below Sanmen. You rescued three people from the strong waves. You spent the night on the beach and were spotted by a woman in the village. They sang by your shed all night. Is it true?"

"It's not about women singing all night long, it's about howling wolves. That place is famous for being full of wolves, and they just want the chance to eat us! We burned a big fire to scare them away so we wouldn't be eaten!"

The old boatman smiled, "That's even better! What people said is quite right. The wolf only eats girls, children, and handsome eighteen-year-olds. It doesn't want to eat anything like me, an old man!"

The second elder said: "Uncle, you have seen 20,000 suns here. Others say that our place has good feng shui and can produce adults. I don't know why, but there are no adults now?"

"Are you saying that good Feng Shui should lead to people with big names? I think it wouldn't be a problem if such people were not born in our small place. We have young people who are smart, upright, brave, and hardworking. That's enough. Brothers like you, father and son, have brought a lot of glory to the local area!"

"Uncle, you are right, I think so too. There are no bad people but good people. Like my uncle, even though he is old, he is still as strong as a nanmu tree. He has lived steadily on this land, and he is decent and generous. It is rare."

"I'm an old man, what can I say? Sun, rain, walking long distances, carrying heavy loads, eating and drinking, starving and cold, I have taken all my share, and soon I will be lying on this cold land to feed the maggots. This world has everything for you young men, work hard, the sun will not let you down, and you must not let it down!"

"Uncle, seeing how diligent you are, we young people dare not live up to the sun!"

After talking for a while, the two elders wanted to leave, so the old boatman stood at the door and called Cuicui, asking her to come inside to boil water and cook rice, while he watched the boat by himself. Cuicui refused to go ashore, but the guests had already disembarked. When Cuicui pulled the boat, her grandfather deliberately pretended to complain and said:

"Cui Cui, if you don't come up, do you want me to be your wife and cook at home?"

Cuicui glanced sideways at the guest, and when she saw the guest was staring at her, she turned her face away, pursed her lips, and pulled the horizontal cable very proudly, and the boat slowly crossed the other side. The guest stood at the bow of the boat and talked to Cuicui:

"Cui Cui, after dinner, why don't you go watch boating with your grandpa?"

Cuicui was too embarrassed to say anything, so she said, "Grandpa said I can't go. There will be no one to guard the ship!"

"And you?"

"If grandpa doesn't go, I won't go either."

"Are you guarding the ship too?"

"I'll accompany my grandpa."

"I want one person to guard the ferry for you, okay?"

With a bang, the bow of the boat hit the ridge on the shore, and the boat came to the shore. The two elders jumped to the shore, stood on the slope and said:

"Cui Cui, it's hard for you!... I'll ask someone to take your place when I get back. You guys hurry up and eat and go to my house to watch the boats together. There are so many people today and it's so lively!"

Cuicui didn't understand the stranger's kindness and why she had to go to his home to see the boat. She smiled and took the boat back. After arriving at the bank of the stream at home, I saw that the man was still on the hill opposite the stream, as if waiting for something, and immediately walked away. Cuicui returned home and went to the stove to light the fire. While stuffing some moist grass into the stove, she asked her grandfather who was trying the gourd wine that the guest had brought back:

"Grandpa, that man said he wanted someone to come and take your place when you go back. He wanted the two of us to go see the boat. Are you going?"

"Are you happy to go?"

"I'm happy that we two are going together. That man is very nice. I seem to recognize him. Who is he?"

Grandfather thought to himself: "That's right, people think you are good too!" Grandfather smiled and said:

"Cui Cui, don't you remember that when you were by the river the year before last, someone told you to let the big fish bite you?"

Cuicui understood, but still pretended not to understand and asked: "Who is he?"

"Think about it and take a guess."

"There are so many people in the book "Hundred Family Surnames", I couldn't guess that they are Zhang San and Li Si."

"The second brother of Mr. Shunshun's family, he knows you but you don't know him!" He took a sip of wine, praising the wine as well as the person, and said in a low voice: "Okay, wonderful, this is rare."

The transition man called out under the door threshold, and the old grandfather still said "Okay, wonderful..." and hurriedly got off the boat and went to work.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [5]: Chapter 4

ten

While eating, someone from across the river called for a transfer, and Cuicui rushed to get off the boat. When they got there, they found out that the person who made the transfer was a sailor sent by the Shunshun family as a substitute. When he saw Cuicui, he said, "The second elder wants you to go as soon as you have eaten. He has already gone down the river." When he saw his grandfather, he said again: "The second elder wants you to go as soon as you have eaten. He has already gone down the river."

If you open your ears and listen, you can hear that the sound of drums in the distance has become denser. The sound of the drums reminds people of those extremely narrow boats. When they go straight forward in the long pool, what beautiful long lines are drawn on the water!

The new arrival didn't even want to drink tea, so he just stood at the bow of the boat. When Cuicui was having dinner with her grandfather, she invited him to have a drink, but she just shook her head and declined. Grandfather said:

"Cui Cui, I'm not going. How about you go with the puppy?"

"If not, I don't want to go either!"

"Should I go?"

"I didn't want to go at first, but I am willing to accompany you."

Grandfather smiled and said, "Cui Cui, Cuicui, you go with me, okay, you go with me!"

When my grandfather and Cuicui arrived at the riverside in the city, the riverside was already full of people. The drizzle has stopped, but the ground is still wet. Grandfather asked Cuicui to cross the river and go up to the stilted building of the boat owner's house to watch the boats, but Cuicui thought it would be better to stand by the river. The two stood by the river for a short time, and someone was sent to invite them. There are already many people on the stilted building. During the transition in the morning, the squire's wife and daughter, who were noticed by Cuicui, were entertained by Shunshun's family and occupied the best window. As soon as she saw Cuicui, the girl said: "Come on, come on!" Cuicui walked over with a little shyness and sat on the bench behind them, and her grandfather walked away.

My grandfather did not watch the dragon boat race, but he was dragged half a mile upstream by an acquaintance to a new mill to watch the water mill. The old boatman was originally very interested in water rollers. There is a small thatched house leaning against the mountains and rivers. There is a round stone piece in the house, fixed on a horizontal axis and resting diagonally in the stone trough. When the sluice gate is withdrawn, the flowing water rushes into the hidden wheel underground, and the stone flakes above fly around. The master manages this thing, pouring the grain into the stone trough, taking out the milled rice and putting it in a sieve in the corner of the room, and then sifting out the chaff and ashes. The ground was covered with ash. The owner’s head was covered with a white cloth, and his head and shoulders were also covered with ash. When the weather is nice, plant some radishes, green vegetables, garlic, and four-season onions in the ground before and after the mill. When the ditch is broken, I take off my pants and go to the river to pile stones to repair the drain. If the water mill dam is well built, a small fish beam can be installed. When the water rises, fish will come up to the beam, and you will get something for nothing! Managing a mill on the river is more varied and interesting than managing a ferry, and the situation becomes clear at a glance. But if a ferryman wants to have a mill, it is simply an impossible dream. As usual, all mills are the property of local small wealthy people. When the acquaintance brought the old boatman to the mill, he told him who the owner of the mill was. The two of them talked while looking around.

The acquaintance kicked the new grinding plate with his feet and said:

"The people of Zhongzhai are sitting on the high mountain stockade, but they are happy to come to this big river to buy property. This is the head of the Zhongzhai King Group, and the big money is 700 yuan!"

The old boatman rolled his little eyes, appreciating everything with envy, appraising everything, nodding his head, and making tactful criticisms of the objects in the mill one by one. Later, the two of them sat on the unfinished white wooden bench. The acquaintance said that the future of the mill seemed to be a dowry for the daughter of the regiment president. The man then thought of Cuicui and what the elder had asked him to do, and asked:

"Uncle, are you Cuicui a teenager this year?"

"When you turn fourteen and turn fifteen." After the old boatman said this, he continued to count the past years in his mind.

"What a capable person at fourteen! Whoever gets her in the future will be lucky!"

"What kind of luck are you? You don't have a mill to dowry, so you're just a naked person."

"Don't talk about a light man, a useful man, two hands are worth five mills! Luoyang Bridge was also built with two hands by Lu Pan!..." After saying this, the man laughed.

The old boatman also laughed and thought: "Cui Cui has two hands to build the Luoyang Bridge in the future. What's new!"

The man said after a while:

"The young men of Chadong have sharp eyes and are very good at choosing wives. Uncle, if you don't care about me, I will tell you a joke."

The old boatman asked: "What kind of joke is this?"

The man said: "Uncle, if you don't pay too much attention, you can listen to this joke as the truth."

What follows is how the eldest son of the Shunshun family praised Cuicui at home, and how he asked him to listen to the old boatman's tone. Finally, I recounted another conversation with the old boatman. "I asked him: 'Big boss, big boss, are you telling the truth or are you telling a joke?' He said: 'You go and find out about that old man for me. I like Cuicui and want Cuicui. It's the truth!' I said: 'I'm very blunt, and I slapped the old man's mouth when I said it. He said, "You're afraid of being beaten. You won't get beaten if you tell it as a joke." So, uncle, I told you this real thing. Think about it, how should I answer him when he comes back from Sichuan Province on the ninth day of the lunar month?"

The old boatman remembered what the elder had said the previous time and knew that the elder meant it sincerely. He also knew that Shunshun also liked Cuicui, and he was very happy. But according to the rules, the man had to go to Bixinuo's house with a bag of snacks to tell the story in person. Then the old boatman said: "When he comes, you say: After the old guy heard the joke, he also told a joke. He said, 'The car is the road, the horse is the road. It's a road, and everyone has their own way of walking. If the old man takes the car road, he should make the decision. He invites the matchmaker to come and talk to me seriously. If he takes the road, he should make the decision himself. He should stand on the high cliff opposite the ferry and sing a song for Cuicui for three years and six months.'"

"Uncle, if singing songs for three years and six months touches Cuicui's heart, I will sing it myself as soon as tomorrow."

"Do you think I will refuse if Cuicui agrees?"

"No, people think that if you, the old man, agree to this, Cuicui will not agree to it."

"You can't say that, it's her business!"

"It's her business, but the elder must make the decision. People still think that singing songs under the sun and moonlight for three years and six months is not as good as asking for a word from my uncle!"

"Then, I said, let's do it like this. When he comes back from eastern Sichuan, I'll ask him to explain it to Shunshun. As for me, I'll ask Cuicui first. I thought it would be more interesting to follow the singer after listening to the song for three years and six months. I'll ask you to persuade the elder to walk on his winding road."

"Okay. When I met him, I said: 'Boss, are you kidding me? I've already said it. To tell the truth, it depends on your own destiny.' It really depends on his fate, but I understand that his fate is still in your hands."

"That's not what you said! If I can decide this matter, I will agree immediately."

After the two of them settled their conversation here, they went to another place to see a three-cabin boat that Shunshun had recently bought. Regarding the Shunshun Diaojiaolou on He Street, the following happened.

Although Cuicui was called by the squire girl to sit next to her, her position was very good. From the window, she could see everything in the river clearly, but her heart was not at peace. People crowded in other windows to watch the excitement seemed to often shift their eyes from the scenery in the river to the people here. There were also some people who deliberately pretended to have other things to do and walked from one side of the building to the other, but in fact they all wanted to take a closer look at Cuicui's group. Cuicui felt uncomfortable all the time and just wanted to find an excuse to run away. After a while, the sound of cannons under the river was heard, and several boats from across the river rowed straight towards this direction. At first, the four boats were not far apart from each other, like four arrows shooting on the water. Halfway through, two boats had already taken the lead. After a while, another boat between the two boats surpassed the other boat. When the ship arrived in front of the tax bureau, the second cannon shot sounded again, indicating that the ship was victorious. At this time, it has been determined that the winner belongs to the one rowed by the people in Hejie Street, and small firecrackers are heard everywhere in celebration. The boat then rowed along the river street and the stilted buildings, drums were beating loudly, and people from all over the river and the stilted buildings were shouting happy congratulations at the same time. When Cuicui saw the young man standing at the bow of the boat waving a small flag to direct the advance and retreat, the young man with a red cloth on his head was the second elder who delivered the wine gourd to Bixituo. The past three years ago was printed in her heart, "The big fish will eat you!" "Eat it or not, no. It’s up to you!” “Dog, dog, you’re barking too!” Thinking of the dog, Cuicui noticed that the yellow dog beside her had gone somewhere, so she left her seat and looked for her dog everywhere, forgetting about the person on the boat.

While she was looking for the yellow dog in the crowd, she listened to what people were saying.

A woman with a big face asked: "Whose family is sitting in the nice place in front of the window in Shunshun's house?"

A woman said: "It's the eldest daughter of Squire Wang's family in the village. She said she came to see the boat today, but in fact she came to see people, and at the same time, she also let people see her! She has a good life, so she is lucky enough to sit in that good place!"

"Who are you looking at? Who are you looking at?"

"Hey, you still don't understand that the squire wants to marry Shunshun's in-laws."

"Who is that girl worthy of? Is it the eldest brother or the second brother?"

"You say he is the second elder. When you see this Yue Yun, he will go upstairs to see his mother-in-law!"

The other woman pursed her lips and said, "It's settled, it's great! I have a brand-new mill to accompany my marriage, which is better than ten years."

Someone asked: "How are you doing? Are you happy?"

Someone said softly: "The two elders have already said it, so there is no need to read it. The first thing is that I don't want to be the owner of that mill!"

"Did you hear what Mr. Yue Yun said personally?"

"I heard what others said. They also said that the two elders like the one who holds the ferry."

"He's not an idiot. He doesn't want a mill, but a ferry?"

"Who knows then. Hengshun people are like 'beef and stir-fried leeks, everyone likes it in their heart'. They eat whatever they like in their heart. The ferry boat will not be as good as a mill!"

At that time, everyone was looking at the river and talking about these gossips, but no one turned around and noticed the Cuicui behind them.

Cuicui walked to another place with a feverish face and heard two people mention this matter. He said: "Everything has been arranged long ago. All it takes is a word from the second elder." He also said: "Just looking at the energy that the second elder has today, you can guess that this energy was given to him by a yellow flower girl on the shore!"

Who is the yellow flower girl who excited the two elders? Hearing this, Cuicui couldn't help but feel a little confused.

Cuicui was a little shorter and could no longer see what was going on in the river behind her. She could only hear the sound of drums getting closer and closer, and the shouts from the shore getting closer and closer. Then she knew that the boat of the two elders was passing downstairs. People upstairs were also shouting, and some people called out the names of the two elders. On the side of the squire's wife, someone also set off Xiaobaizi firecrackers. Suddenly he shouted in another voice of surprise, and at the same time many people were seen going out and walking down the river. Cuicui didn't know what happened, and she was a little confused. She didn't know if it was better to go back to her original seat or to still stand behind the person. I saw someone over there taking a tray with a large plate of rice dumplings and snacks, and asking the lady squire to have snacks. I was too embarrassed to go over there, so I thought I would squeeze out of the gate and go down to the river to have a look. When I was walking down the river from the corridor next to a salt store on He Street, I met a group of people between the beams of a row of stilted buildings. They came hugging an old man with a red cloth on his head. It turned out that the two elders had fallen into the water due to a mistake and had already gotten up from the water. The road was too narrow, and even though Cuicui ducked aside, she was still elbow to elbow with the oncoming person. As soon as the two elders saw Cuicui, they said:

"Cui Cui, you are here, is grandpa here too?"

Cuicui's face was still burning and she couldn't speak. She thought to herself: "Where did the yellow dog go?"

The second elder said again:

"Why don't you go upstairs to my house to watch? I've asked someone to get a good seat for you."

Cuicui thought to herself: "It's a strange thing to do a dowry in a mill."

The two elders could not force Cuicui to go back, so they walked away after arriving. When Cuicui reached the river, her heart was filled with something inexplicable. It's a worry, isn't it? It's sadness, isn't it? It's happiness, no, what makes this girl happy? She was angry, maybe - yes, she really seemed to feel that she was angry with someone, and also seemed to be angry with herself. There were too many people on the river. There were no one in the shallow water beside the pier, on the masts of the boats, or even on the pillars of the stilted buildings. Cuicui said to herself: "There are so many people, what kind of three-legged cat is there?" At first she thought she could find her grandfather on some ship, but after searching for a while, there was no trace of her grandfather anywhere. She squeezed to the water's edge and immediately saw the yellow dog in her family, a long-term member of the Shunshun family, watching the excitement on an empty boat a few feet away from the shore. Cuicui screamed twice. The yellow dog opened its ears and raised its head and looked around. Then it plunged into the water and swam towards Cuicui. When they arrived, the dog was completely covered in water, shaking the water and jumping around. Cuicui said, "Come on, why are you pretending to be crazy? If you don't capsize the boat, who wants you to fall into the water?"

Cuicui and Huang Gou went to find their grandfather, and happened to meet him in front of a wooden shop on the river street.

The old boatman said: "Cui Cui, I saw a good mill. The grinding disc is new, the water wheel is new, and the straw on the house is new! The dam pipes a stream of water, and it flows rapidly. When the water gate is pumped, the water wheel spins like a top."

Cuicui asked with a bit of affectation: "Who does it belong to?"

"Who does it belong to? The boss of Wang Tuan who lives on the mountain. I heard someone said it was the Zhongzhai people who made dowries for their daughters. They are so lavish. They only pay 700 yuan for a job, and they don't care about the windmill or the household items!"

"Who wants that family's daughter?"

Grandfather looked at Cuicui and smiled dryly, "Cui Cui, the big fish bites you, the big fish bites you."

Because Cuicui had an idea about this matter, she still pretended not to understand at all and only asked her grandfather, "Grandpa, who will get that mill?"

"Two elders Yue Yun!" Grandfather said and then said to himself, "Some people envy the two elders to get the mill, and some people envy the two elders to get the mill!"

"Who is envious, Grandpa?"

"I envy you." Grandpa said and smiled again.

Cuicui said: "Grandpa, you are drunk."

"But the second elder also praised you for your beauty."

Cuicui said: "Grandpa, you are drunk and crazy."

Grandfather said: "Grandpa is neither drunk nor crazy... Go, let's go to the river and watch them release ducks." He also wanted to say, "If the second elder catches a duck, he will definitely give it to us again." Before he could say anything, the second elder came and stood in front of Cuicui with a smile. Cuicui also smiled.

So the three people returned to the stilted building. eleven

Someone brought gifts to Bixi Nuo, and Shunshun from Zhangshui Pier actually invited a matchmaker to marry his son to Ferryman. The old boatman hurriedly took the man across the creek and went home together. Cuicui was peeling peas in front of the house and didn't pay much attention to the guests. But as soon as I heard the guests coming in and saying "Congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, congratulations."

The visitor chatted some gossip and got back to business when he relayed Shun Shun's opinion. The old boatman didn't know how to reply. He just rubbed his two calloused hands in panic, as if this was not true, and his expression only seemed to say: "That's good, that's good." In fact, the old man never said a word.

After the horse soldier finished speaking, he asked his grandfather what his opinion was. The old boatman nodded with a smile and said, "I want to take the car route, which is good. But I have to ask Cuicui to see what she thinks." After the visitor left, his grandfather asked Cuicui to go down to the river to talk.

Cuicui took a handful of peas and went down to the stream, got on the boat, and asked her grandfather delicately: "Grandpa, what can you do?" Her grandfather smiled and said nothing, but looked at Cuicui for a long time with his white-haired head tilted to one side. Cuicui sat on the bow of the boat, lowered her head to peel peas, and listened to the yellow birds chirping in the bamboo poles in the distance. Cuicui thought: "The days are long, and grandpa's words are also long." Cuicui's heart was beating lightly.

After a while, grandfather said: "Cui Cui, Cui Cui, do you know what the uncle who came earlier came to do?"

Cuicui said: "I don't know." After saying this, her face and neck turned red.

Grandfather looked at that scene and understood Cui Cui's thoughts, so he looked into the distance and saw Cui Cui's mother fifteen years ago in the mist. The old boatman felt unusually soft in his heart. He whispered to himself softly: "Every ship must have a dock, and every bird must have a nest." At the same time, he thought of the poor mother's past, and felt a little pain in his heart, but he forced a smile.

As for Cuicui, she was thinking of many things from the chirping of yellow birds and cuckoos in the mountains and the chirping sounds of bamboo cutters cutting bamboo in the valley. Stories about tigers biting people, four-sentence folk songs when scolding people, the square pit in the papermaking workshop, the iron juice leaking from the iron furnace in the iron factory...she seemed to want to review everything she heard with her ears and saw with her eyes. The reason why she did this seemed to be all because she wanted to forget about the incident in front of her. But she really misunderstood.

Grandfather said: "Cui Cui, the shipmaster Shun Shun's family has invited someone to act as a matchmaker. He wants you to be his wife. I want to ask if I am willing. As for me, I am old and will pass in three or two years. There is nothing I don't want to do. This is your own business. You think about it and make your own decisions. If you are willing, it will be done; if you are not willing, it's okay."

Cuicui didn't know how to deal with this problem, so she pretended to be calm and looked at her grandfather timidly. It’s not easy to ask anything, and of course it’s not easy to answer.

The grandfather added: "The elder is a promising man, upright and generous. If you marry him, you will be lucky!"

Cuicui understands, the boss is a matchmaker! She never raised her head, her heart was pounding, her face was burning badly, she still peeled her peas, and threw the empty beans into the water, watching them flow calmly in the running water, she seemed to feel much calmer.

Seeing that Cuicui remained silent, his grandfather smiled and said: "Cui Cui, I think it won't be a problem for a few days. Luoyang Bridge was not built in one night, it takes time. The man who came here mentioned this to me last time, and I have already told him: Cars are roads for carriages, horses are roads, and each has its own rules. I want Dad to make the decision. "If you like to walk on the road, I believe that people will sing passionate songs for you under the sun and gentle songs under the moonlight, until your throat vomits blood and your throat is broken!"

Cuicui remained silent. She just wanted to cry, but she had no reason to cry. When my grandfather continued talking, he led to his dead mother. The old man spoke for a while and then fell silent. Cuicui quietly lowered her head, and there were already tears in her grandfather's eyes. Cuicui was frightened and scared and said timidly: "Grandpa, what's wrong with you?" Grandpa kept silent, wiped his eyes with his big palms, chuckled like a child, jumped onto the shore and ran home.

Cuicui's heart was in turmoil, she wanted to rush but didn't.

It's a sunny day after the rain, and the sun is already burning onto people's shoulders and back, and it already has some strength. The reeds and willows beside the stream, and the vegetables in the vegetable garden, are all flourishing and luxuriant, with a bit of wild vitality. Green grasshoppers were flying here and there in the grass, making a rustling sound as their wings beat through the air. The sound of new cicadas on the branches has gradually become louder. The two mountains are deep and green, and among the bamboo swaths, there are yellow birds, bamboo sparrows and cuckoos singing. Cuicui feels, looks, listens, and thinks at the same time:

"Grandpa is seventy years old this year... Song of three years and six months - who will send that white duck?... If you get the good luck of the nanny, who will get the better luck?..."

I was obsessed with it, and suddenly I got lucky, and half the dustpan of peas was dumped into the water. When I reached out to pull the dustpan out of the water, someone shouted "Transfer" from across the stream.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [6]: Chapter 5

twelve

The next day in the vegetable garden under the White Tower, when Cuicui was asked about her opinion for the second time by her grandfather, her heart was still beating anxiously. She lowered her head and ignored it, and just picked onions with her hands. Grandfather smiled and thought: "Let's wait and see, if I keep talking, all the green onions will be pinched off." At the same time, he seemed to feel that there was something weird about this and it was difficult to continue talking, so he suppressed his words and used a contrived joke to lead the problem to another matter.

The weather is gradually getting hotter and hotter. Towards June, when the weather got a little hotter, the old boatman moved a dusty black pottery jar out of the corner of the house. In his spare time, he pieced together a few square wooden boards to make a round cover. He also sawed wood to make a tripod, scraped a large bamboo tube, tied it with kudzu vines, and placed it next to the vat as tea ladle furniture. Ever since the teapot was moved to the stream near the house gate, Cuicui would boil a large pot of boiling water and pour it into the teapot every morning. Sometimes some tea leaves are added to the vat, and sometimes only some pots of rice burnt by fire are put in, and they are thrown into the vat while they are still burning. As usual, the old boatman prepared some grass roots and bark for treating sores and sores. He put these medicines in a prominent place at home. When he saw that the passerby looked strange, he hurriedly fetched the medicines and kindly forced the passerby to use his medicines. He also told the source of many emergency medicines (all of which he learned from the military doctors and wizards in the city). He stood still on the square-head boat with his arms folded all day long. His head was often bare, with short white hair that looked like silver in the sunlight. Cuicui is still a happy person, running around and singing in front of and behind the house. When not walking around, she sits in the shade of a tall cliff tree in front of the door and plays with a small bamboo pipe. Grandpa seemed to have forgotten about the eldest brother’s proposal of marriage, and naturally Cuicui had also forgotten about it.

But the matchmaker came to check on her again soon, and it was still the same as before. Grandpa blamed Cuicui for whether the matter would succeed or not, and sent the matchmaker on his way. I went back and talked to Cuicui again, but still couldn't get any results.

The old boatman couldn't figure out where the problem was, and he couldn't get rid of it. Lying in bed at night, he would often fall into deep thought, and vaguely realized one thing - Cuicui loved the second elder but not the elder. When he thought of this, he smiled, and he smiled reluctantly out of fear. In fact, he was a little sad, because he suddenly felt that everything about Cuicui was like that mother, and he vaguely felt the common fate of the mother and daughter. A lot of things from the past came flooding in, and I couldn't sleep anymore. I ran out of the door and went to the high cliff next to the stream. I looked at the stars in the sky and listened to the raining sounds of the weavers and all the insects by the river. I didn't sleep for a long time.

Cuicui paid no attention to this matter. Although the little girl played and worked during the day, and at the same time her little heart was racing for some very mysterious things, she fell into a sweet sleep at night.

But everything has to change in time. The quiet and ordinary life of this family was completely broken by a series of days that came one after another in terms of personnel.

On the one hand, the ship manager Shunshun's family knew about the elder Tianbao, so Nuo sent the two elders off and also let his elder brother know what was on his mind. It turned out that the two brothers fell in love with the granddaughter who was holding the ferry at the same time. This matter is not unusual to the locals. As the saying goes: "Fire can be burned everywhere, water can flow everywhere, the sun and moon can shine everywhere, and love can be found everywhere." It cannot be a rare news that the son of a wealthy boat owner falls in love with a poor girl who runs a ferry. There is a little difficulty. But when it comes to who should get this woman as his wife, do the two brothers also have to have a bloody struggle according to the rules of the Chadong people?

The two brothers would not use the knife in this regard, but they would not engage in "lover giving in", such as the ridiculous behavior of cowardly men in the metropolis when love and hatred are facing each other.

The elder brother and his younger brother were at a shipbuilding place upstream of the river. They were looking at the new boat in his family. Next to the new boat, he told his younger brother everything he was thinking. He also explained that this love was rooted two years ago. The younger brother smiled and listened. The two of them walked along the river bank from the shipbuilding place to Wang Xiangshen's new mill. The eldest brother said:

"Second old man, it's good for you. You are the son-in-law of the regiment president and you have a mill. As for me, if things are done well, I should take over the old man's hand and row the ferry. I am very happy about this. I also want to buy two hills in Bixituo, plant Danan bamboo on the boundary line, and surround this creek as my village!"

The two elders still listened, and used a crescent-shaped sickle in their hands to cut the grass and trees on the roadside at will. When they arrived at the mill, they stopped and said to his brother:

"Elder, do you believe that this woman already has someone in mind?"

"I don't believe it."

"Elder brother, do you believe that this mill will belong to me in the future?"

"I don't believe it."

The two men then entered the mill.

The second elder said: "You don't have to-eldest elder, let me ask you again, if I don't want this mill, but I am considering getting the ferry, and this idea happened two years ago, would you believe it?"

The eldest brother was really surprised when he heard this. He looked at the two elders of Nuosong who were sitting on the horizontal axis of the grinding wheel. He knew that the two elders were not joking, so he stood a little closer, reached out and slapped the two elders on their shoulders, trying to pull them down. He understood this and he smiled. He said, "I believe you are telling the truth!"

The second elder looked at his brother and said honestly:

"Boss, believe me, this is true. I have planned to arrive for a long time. If my family doesn't agree, if they agree, I will seriously prepare to get a ferry! - You sue me, what about you?"

"Dad has listened to my words and went to propose marriage to the Yang Ma soldiers in the city for me!" When the eldest brother mentioned this marriage proposal procedure, he seemed to know that the second elder was going to laugh at him, and explained the purpose of going to Baoshan. It was just because the elder said that there are roads for cars and roads for horses, so I took the car road.

"What's the result?"

"Nothing will come of it. The old man has a plum in his mouth and can't explain it."

"Where's the road?"

"As for the road, the old man said that if you walk on the road, you have to sing songs for three years and six months on the high cliff across the river from Bixi Pavilion. Sing the green and green to your heart, and the green and green will be mine."

"That's not a bad idea!"

"Yes, a person who stutters can sing even though he can't speak. But it's not my turn to do this. I'm not a bamboo bird and I can't sing. Who knows what the old man's intention is to marry his granddaughter to a singing waterwheel, or whether he wants to marry a decent person!"

"How about you?"

"I want to sue the old man and ask him to tell the truth. Just one sentence. If it doesn't work, I will go down to Taoyuan with the boat. If it works, he will ask me to hold the ferry, and I will agree to it."

"What about singing?"

"This is your specialty. If you want to make a bamboo bird, go ahead. I won't stuff horse dung in your mouth."

When the second elder saw his brother's appearance, he knew how troubled he felt about this matter. He understood that his brother's temperament represented the rough and straightforward side of the Chadong people. If he did well, he would give his heart to others and be very generous. Why didn't the eldest brother want to walk on the road when he failed in the car? But as soon as he heard the second elder's frank statement, he knew that the road was only for the two elders, and he couldn't mention his own affairs. Therefore, he was a little annoyed and a little angry, which he naturally could not hide.

The two elders came up with an idea, that is, the two brothers went to Bixi Nuo to sing together on a moonlit night, so that no one would know that they were two brothers. They took turns singing, and whoever got the answer would continue to serve the granddaughter rowing the ferry with his triumphant singing mouth. The eldest brother is not good at singing, so when it is his turn, he is still replaced by the second elder. It is extremely fair for the two of them to decide their own happiness by their luck and destiny. When he proposed it, the elder thought he couldn't sing, and he didn't want to ask the second elder to sing the bamboo bird for him. But the poet's character of the second elder made him insistent on asking his elder brother to implement this method. The two elders said that this must be done to make everything fair.

The eldest brother thought about his brother's suggestion and made a wry smile. "Damn it, I'm not a bamboo bird, so I asked my brother to be a bamboo bird! Okay, that's it, we each take turns singing, and I don't need your help, I do everything by myself. The owl in the woods has a quiet voice, and when it comes to luck, it still calls by itself without asking for help!"

After the two of them settled the matter, they counted the days. Today is fourteenth, tomorrow is fifteenth, and the day after tomorrow is sixteenth. The three consecutive days are exactly the weather with a big moon. It was mid-summer, and it was neither hot nor cold in the middle of the night. Wearing a Baijia Ji cloth sweatshirt, we went to the high cliffs where the moonlight shined. Following the local custom, we sang for a "newborn calf" with honesty and frankness. The dew has fallen and the singing has become muted. When it's time to go home, I rush home under the waning moon. Or go to those familiar mills that work all night long, lie down in the warm barn and take a nap, waiting for dawn. All the arrangements were extremely natural. Although the two of them didn't understand what the result would be, they also saw it as extremely lucky and natural. The two decided to start this kind of competition recognized by local customs based on their luck that night. Thirteen

When dusk came, Cuicui sat under the white tower behind her house, watching the sky turn into peach-colored thin clouds as the setting sun came. During the 14th Zhongzhai Festival, many businessmen from the city came to Zhongzhai to buy mountain goods, and there were also many people passing by. My grandfather was busy on the ferry. It was almost night, and all the other sparrows seemed to be resting, except for the cuckoo, which kept calling. The rocks and soil have been exposed to the sun all day long, and the grass and trees have been exposed to the sun all day long. At this time, they all release a kind of heat. There is an earthy, grassy, ​​and beetle-like smell in the air. Cuicui looked at the red clouds in the sky and listened to the chaotic voices of businessmen from Piaoxiang at the ferry, feeling a little desolate in her heart.

Dusk is still gentle, beautiful and peaceful. But if a person thinks about everything in the present, he will still feel a little desolate in this dusk. So, this day became a painful thing. Cuicui felt as if something was missing. It seems that seeing this day pass, I want to grasp it in a new person and thing, but I can't. It seems that life is too ordinary and I can't bear it.

"I want to take a boat down to Taoyuan County and cross Dongting Lake. I will ask my grandfather to play gongs all over the city to call me, and light lanterns and torches to find me."

She thought about such a thing as if her grandfather was deliberately angry. She also imagined that after she ran away, her grandfather searched in various ways with no results, and how he lay helpless on the ferry in the end.

People shouted, "Transition, transition, old uncle, what are you doing? You don't care!" "What! Cuicui left and went to Taoyuan County!" "Then what do you do?" "What do you do? Take a knife, put it in the bag, take a boat and kill her!"...

Cuicui seemed to be listening to this conversation seriously, and became frightened. She called out to her grandfather in a sharp voice, and ran from the ridge to the ferry by the stream. I saw my grandfather pulling the boat in the center of the stream. The people on the boat were chattering and the little boy was still jumping up and down.

"Grandpa, grandpa, pull the boat back!"

The old boatman didn't understand what she meant, and thought Cuicui was going to do the work for him, so he said:

"Cui Cui, wait a minute, I'll be back!"

"Aren't you going to pull it back?"

"I'll be right back!"

Cuicui sat by the stream, looking at everything on the stream shrouded in twilight, and seeing a group of people on the ferry. Among them was a cigarette smoker, smoking with a sickle, and peeling the cigarette stick against the side of the boat to knock the ashes, and suddenly started to cry.

When my grandfather pulled the boat back, he saw Cuicui sitting on the shore foolishly. He asked her what was going on, but Cuicui remained silent. Her grandfather asked her to light a fire and cook. After thinking for a while, she felt that she was crying ridiculously, so she went back to the house alone. After sitting by the dark stove to light the fire, she walked to the high cliff outside the door and called her grandfather to come home. He just stood on the bow of the boat and told Cuicui and asked him to do something. After ferrying people over, he went home to have dinner.

Cuicui asked her grandfather for the second time, but he ignored her. She sat on the cliff, feeling very sad.

It was night, and there was a big firefly with blue light shining on its tail. It flew past Cuicui very quickly. Cuicui thought, "Let's see how far you fly!" Then she followed the bright light of the firefly with her eyes. The cuckoo cried again.

"Grandpa, why don't you come up? I want you!"

When the grandfather on the boat heard this tender and complaining voice, he replied in a rough voice: "Cui Cui, I'll come, I'll come!" But he thought to himself: "Cui Cui, grandpa is gone, what will happen to you?"

When the old boatman returned home, he saw that the house was still dark, except for the light of the fire in the stove. He saw Cuicui sitting on a short stool by the stove, covering her eyes with her hands.

When I walked over, I realized that Cuicui had been crying for a long time. My grandfather spent the rest of the day hunched over and pulled around on the boat. When he took a break, his hands and waist were sore. According to the rules, as soon as he got home, he would smell the vegetables and melons stewed in the pot, and he could see Cuicui running around under the light as she arranged dinner. Things are a little different today.

Grandfather said: "Cui Cui, I was too late and you cried. Is this okay? What if I die?"

Cuicui remained silent.

Grandfather said again: "Don't cry. Be an adult and don't cry no matter what happens. Only by being tougher and stronger can you be worthy of living on this land!"

Cuicui removed her hands from her eyes and moved closer to her grandfather, "I won't cry anymore."

While the two were having dinner, Grandpa told Cuicui some interesting stories. Therefore, the deceased Cuicui's mother was mentioned. After the two of them had eaten under the soybean oil lamp, the old boatman drank half a bowl of white wine because he was tired from work, so he was in great spirits after the meal, and he and Cuicui went to tell stories under the moonlight on the high cliff outside the door. He talked about the good things about the poor mother, and at the same time talked about the strong character of the poor mother, which made Cuicui listen to her with fascination.

Cuicui hugged her knees and sat under the moonlight, next to her grandfather, and asked many stories about her poor mother. Occasionally I let out a breath, as if there was something heavy weighing on my heart, and I wanted to move it farther away, so I let out this breath, but I couldn't move that thing away.

The moonlight is like silver, shining everywhere, and all the bamboos on the mountain turn black under the moonlight. The sound of insects in the grass around me was as thick as falling rain. Occasionally, from somewhere, a grass warbler would suddenly chirp its throat, "Luuluuluuluosh!" Soon, the little bird seemed to understand that it was the middle of the night and shouldn't be so noisy, so it still closed its little eyes and slept peacefully.

Grandfather was in great spirits at night and told Cuicui the story, mentioning how the local people's singing custom twenty years ago became famous in the Sichuan-Guizhou border. Cuicui's father is an expert in singing and can use various metaphors to explain the knot of love and hatred. These things are also mentioned. They also talked about how Cuicui's mother loved to sing, and how she and her father sang in antiphonal ways during the day before they knew each other. One of them was chopping bamboo in the bamboo poles on the mountainside, and the other was pulling the boat on the ferry on the stream.

Cuicui asked: "What happened next?"

Grandfather said: "What happened later is very long. The most important thing is that this kind of singing inspired you."

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)
Paragraph [7]: Chapter 6

fourteen

The old boatman fell asleep when he was tired from working, and Cuicui fell asleep when she was tired of crying. Cuicui could not forget what her grandfather said. In her dream, her soul floated up to a beautiful song, as if floating gently everywhere, up to the white tower, down to the vegetable garden, to the boat, and then flew back halfway across the cliff - what was she going to do? Pick saxifrage! When pulling the boat during the day, she looked up at the fat saxifrages on the cliff and became very familiar with them. The cliff is three to five feet high, and it is difficult to climb or break it normally, but at this time, you can use the largest leaves as umbrellas.

Everything was like a story told by her grandfather. Cuicui just lay on the straw in the burlap tent in a daze, thinking that this dream was the most beautiful and sweet. But my grandfather was awake in bed, opening his ears and listening to the people on the high cliffs of the river singing songs in the middle of the night. He knew who sang it, and he knew it was the first song of Mr. Tianbao on He Street. He listened to it with sadness and joy. Cuicui was tired of crying during the day and slept well, so he didn't disturb her.

At dawn the next day, Cuicui got up with her grandfather, washed her face with stream water, and got rid of the taboo of talking about dreams in the morning. Cuicui hurriedly told her grandfather what she had dreamed about last night.

"Grandpa, you were talking about singing. I heard a very nice singing voice in my dream yesterday. It was soft and lingering. I seemed to be flying around with this voice. I flew halfway up the cliff opposite the stream and picked a lot of saxifrage. I got the saxifrage. I don't know who to give this thing to. I slept so well. The dream was so interesting!"

Grandfather smiled gently and pitifully, but did not tell Cuicui the facts of last night.

Grandfather thought to himself: "It would be better to dream all your life. There are still people who will be the number one prime minister in their dreams."

The old boatman thought the singer last night was Tianbao, and he would ask Cuicui to guard the boat in the future, and go to the city to deliver medicine and inquire about the situation. When I saw the elder on He Street, I grabbed the young man and said happily:

"Boss, you are a cunning person who walks both in a car and on the road!"

But the old boatman made a mistake and misled the singer last night. The two brothers went to Bixituo at the same time last night. In order to get the advantage of the elder brother, they refused to sing first no matter what. They had to let the younger brother sing first. As soon as the younger brother opened his mouth, the elder brother could not speak because he knew he was not his opponent. The songs Cuicui and her grandfather heard at night were all sung by the two old Nuosong elders. When the eldest wife and her younger brother came home, they decided to leave the Chadong place and sail the new oil tanker at home so that they could forget everything above. At this time, I was about to go down to the river to watch the loading of new ships. Seeing his cold expression, the old boatman didn't understand what he meant, so he made a funny mark with his eyebrows to show that he understood that the elder's coldness was just an act and that he had news to tell him.

He patted the elder and said softly:

"You sing very well. When others listen to your song in their dreams, you carry it far and travel a lot! You are the number one, the number one singer in our place."

The elder looked at the old boatman's cowardly face and said softly:

"Forget it, just give your precious daughter to the singing bamboo bird."

This sentence made the old boatman completely confused about its meaning. The elder walked down the river from a stilted corridor, and the old boatman followed him. When I got to the river, I saw that the new ship was being loaded, and many oil baskets were placed on the shore. A sailor was tying thatch into long bundles to prepare handles for blocking waves on the side of the ship, while others were wiping oars with grease on the riverside. The old boatman asked the sailor who was sitting on the thatch in the bright sun when the boat would set off and who would escort the boat. The sailor pointed his finger at the elder. The old boatman rubbed his hands and said:

"Boss, let me tell you something serious. It's not right for you to do it by car. If you do it by road, you have a share in it!"

The elder pointed his hand at the window and said, "Uncle, look over there. You want the bamboo bird to be your grandson-in-law. The bamboo bird is there!"

The old boatman looked up and saw the second old man arranging a fishing net outside the window.

When returning to Bixiyu and getting on the ferry, Cuicui asked:

"Grandpa, who did you have a quarrel with? You look so ugly!"

Grandfather smiled and didn't tell Cuicui a word about his visit to the city. fifteen

The elder took the new oil boat and walked down the river, leaving Nuo to see the two elders at home. The old boatman thought that since the singing last time belonged to the two elders, he would naturally hear that kind of singing again in the next few days. As soon as evening arrived, she deliberately focused on other things to attract Cuicui's attention to the singing at night. After dinner, the two of them sat in the house. Because the house was next to the water, long-legged mosquitoes were buzzing at dusk. Cuicui lit a cigarette bundle made of mugwort and waved it around the corners of the house to drive away the mosquitoes. After shaking for a while, I guess the whole room was filled with mugwort smoke, so I put it on the floor in front of the bed, then sat on the small bench to listen to my grandfather's words. Slowly talking about singing from some stories, my grandfather said something wonderful. When my grandfather arrived, he asked:

"Cui Cui, the song in your dream can make you climb up the high cliff to pick the saxifrage. What if someone really comes to sing for you on the high cliff across the river?" Grandfather said it as a joke.

Cuicui took it as a joke and replied: "I will listen to someone singing, and I will listen to him for as long as he sings!"

"How about singing for three years and six months?"

"It's a beautiful song and I've listened to it for three years and six months."

"That's not fair."

"Why is it unfair? Doesn't the person who sings for me really want me to listen to his songs for a long time?"

"Logically speaking: people need to eat when cooking, and people need to listen when singing. But when people sing for you, they want you to understand the meaning of their songs!"

"Grandpa, do you know what the song means?"

"Of course it's because he sincerely wants to get along with you! Isn't it the same as listening to the bamboo sparrow singing if he doesn't understand that?"

"So what if I understand his heart?"

Grandfather beat his legs hard with his fists and smiled: "Cui Cui, you are a good person. Grandpa is very stupid and can't speak softly. Don't be angry. I'm just talking nonsense and telling you a joke. You should take it as a joke. Hejie Tianbao The elder walked on the road to ask Baoshan to propose marriage. I told you this before, but you looked unwilling, didn't you? But what would you say if that man had a brother who walked on the road and came to sing for you and propose to you? "

Cuicui was startled and lowered her head. Because she didn't understand how true the joke was, and she didn't know who made the joke.

Grandfather said: "Tell me, which one do you want?"

Cuicui smiled and said with a gentle pleading look:

"Grandpa, please don't tell this joke." Cuicui stood up.

"What if what I said is true?"

"Grandpa, you are such a..." Cuicui said and walked out.

Grandfather said, "What I said was a joke. Are you angry with me?"

Cuicui didn't dare to be angry with her grandfather. As she approached the door, she led her conversation to another matter: "Grandpa, look at the moon in the sky, it's so big!" After saying that, she walked out of the house and stood still in the clear open air. After standing for a while, my grandfather also came out of the house. Cuicui then sat on the rock that was heated by the strong sunlight during the day. The stone was dissipating the residual heat stored during the day. Grandfather said: "Cui Cui, don't sit on the hot rocks to avoid getting sores." But after touching it with his hands, he also sat on the rock.

The moonlight is extremely soft, and a thin layer of white mist floats on the surface of the stream. At this time, if someone is singing to the stream and singing along across the stream, it is really beautiful. Cuicui still remembers the joke her grandfather told earlier. He is not deaf, and his grandfather's words are very clear. How can a brother walk on the street and sing to kill an evening like this? She seemed to have been silent for a long time waiting for such singing.

She sat under the moonlight for a while, but in her heart she really wanted to listen to someone singing. For a long time, there was nothing but the voiceless repetition of grass and insects in the stream. Cuicui walked home, touched the reed pipe by the door, took it out and blew it under the moonlight. Feeling that the playing was not good, he handed it to his grandfather to play again. The old boatman put the reed pipe up to his mouth and played a long tune, which softened Cuicui's heart.

Cuicui sat next to her grandfather and asked him:

"Grandpa, who was the first person to make this little tube?"

"He must be the happiest person, because he also imparts a lot of happiness to others; but it also seems to be the unhappiest person, because he can also cause people to be unhappy!"

"Grandpa, are you unhappy? Are you angry with me?"

"I'm not angry with you. I'm happy when you're by my side."

"What if I run away?"

"You will not leave Grandpa."

"What if something like this happens, grandpa?"

"If something like this happens, I will take this ferry to find you."

Cuicui sneered. "Fengtan and Citan are not dangerous. There are chicken coops below. It is easy to get off the chicken coop. The waves on Qinglangtan are as big as a house. Grandpa, can you also use the ferry to get down to Fengtan, Citan and Qinglangtan? Didn't you say that the water in those places looks like a lunatic?"

Grandfather said: "Cui Cui, I really looked like a madman at that time. Am I still afraid of big water and waves?"

Cuicui thought about it very seriously and said, "Grandpa, I will definitely not leave. But will you leave? Will you be caught by someone and taken somewhere else?"

Grandfather fell silent, thinking of things like being snatched away by death.

The old boatman looked at his situation after being taken away by death, and looked at a star in the southern corner of the sky. He thought: "There are shooting stars in the sky in July and August, people will die in July and August, right?" He also thought about the conversation with the elder on the river street during the day, the mill where the villagers were married, the two elders, and a lot of things, and he felt a little confused.

Cuicui suddenly said: "Grandpa, can you sing a song for me?"

Grandfather sang ten songs. Cuicui stood next to her grandfather and listened with her eyes closed. When her grandfather fell silent, Cuicui said to herself: "I picked another handful of saxifrage."

The song my grandfather sang was the song I heard that night. sixteen

The two elders had the opportunity to sing but never went to Bixinuo again. Fifteen passed, sixteen passed, and when seventeen came, the old boatman couldn't bear it any longer, and went into the city to look for the young man on He Street. When he arrived at the city gate and was about to enter the river street, he met Yang Mabing, who had been protecting the old man last time. He was leading a mule and horse and was about to leave the city. When he saw the old boatman, he grabbed him:

"Uncle, I have something to sue you, and by chance you came to the city!"

"What's up?"

"Elder Tianbao took a boat to Citan and something happened. Unexpectedly, the man fell into the swirling water under the beach and drowned. In the morning, Shunshun's family got this letter. I heard that the two elders rushed there early in the morning."

This news hit him hard like a powerful slap. He didn't believe it was serious news. He pretended to be calm and said:

"Is the natural protection damaged by water? I have never heard of a water duck being damaged by water!"

"But the water duck was still drowned once... I agree with your brilliant opinion. It is very convenient to prevent that kid from walking."

From the words of the horse soldiers, the old boatman was still very doubtful about the news, but from the look of the horse soldiers, the old boatman clearly saw that this was true news. He said miserably:

"What can I say? This is God's will! Everything is God's will..." The old boatman said with emotion in his heart.

In order to prove how reliable what the horse soldier said, the old boatman broke up with the horse soldier and hurried to the river street. When we arrived in front of Shunshun's house, someone was burning paper money, and many people gathered around to talk. Come closer and listen, what you are talking about is what Yang Mabing mentioned. But as soon as someone spotted the old boatman behind him, everyone changed their conversation and deliberately talked about the rise and fall of oil prices in Xiahe. The old boatman was very uneasy and wanted to talk to a better sailor.

After a while, the captain came back obediently from the outside, looking solemn. This bold and upright middle-aged man seemed to be struggling to get up after being knocked down by misfortune. As soon as he saw the old boatman, he said:

"Old uncle, let's blow the matter we talked about. Mr. Tianbao is broken, do you know that?"

The old boatman's eyes were red and he rubbed his hands, "What, this is true! Was it yesterday or the day before yesterday?"

The other one, who seemed to be on the way to report the news, said with his lips clasped: "On the 16th, the boat was resting on the stone buns, and the bow of the boat was filled with water. The elder wanted to leave the pole, but the man jumped into the water."

The old boatman said, "Did you see him go into the water?"

"I also went into the water at the same time as him!"

"What did he say?"

"It's too late to say anything! He hasn't spoken for the past few days!"

The old boatman shook his head and glanced timidly at Shunshun. The ship manager Shun Shunxiang knew what he was feeling uneasy about, so he said, "Uncle, it's all God's fault, forget it.

I have some good shochu here from people in Daxingchang. You can take some and drink it. "A waiter served a tube of wine in a bamboo tube, covered the mouth of the tube with new paulownia leaves, and handed it to the old boatman.

The old boatman took the wine away, and after reaching the river street, he lowered his head and walked towards the river pier, and went to the Tianbao Daiqiantian boarding place on the riverside to have a look. Yang Mabing was still letting his horse roll on the sand, and he sat in the shade of the willow tree to enjoy the cool air. The old boatman went over and asked the horseman to try the shochu in Daxingchang. After the two drank some wine, they seemed to be in a better mood. The old boatman told Yang Mabing that on the night of the 14th, the two elders went to Bixinuo to sing.

When the horseman heard this, he said:

"Uncle, do you think Cuicui wants the second elder to be sent to the second elder..."

Before he finished speaking, Nuo came down from He Street to see the two elders off. The young man looked like he was about to go on a long journey, so he turned back as soon as he saw the old boatman. Yang Mabing called him and said:

"Second old man, second old man, come here, I have something to say to you!"

The second elder stood still, looking very unhappy, and asked the horse soldier, "What do you have to say?" The horse soldier looked at the old boatman and said to the two elders: "Come here, you have something to say!"

"What words?"

"I heard that you have left - come here and I will tell you that I will not eat you!"

The old man Nuo, who had a black face, broad shoulders, and a lively look, forced a smile. When he arrived under the willow shade, the old boatman wanted to calm down the air, pointed to the new mill far up the river and said: "Second old man, I heard that the mill will belong to you in the future! If it belongs to you, send me to guard the mill, okay?"

The two elders seemed to be unable to understand the purpose of this inquiry, so they remained silent. Seeing that the limelight was a bit stiff, Yang Mabing said, "Second old man, what's wrong with you, are you ready to go?" The young man nodded, said nothing, and walked away.

The old boatman was so bored that he hurried back to Bixi Nuo. When he got on the ferry, he pretended to take the matter very casually and reported it to Cuicui.

"Cui Cui, something new happened in the city today. Mr. Tianbao drove an oil tanker down to Chenzhou. He was unlucky and fell into Citan and was drowned."

Because Cuicui didn't understand, she didn't seem to care at all about the report at first. Grandfather said again:

"Cui Cui, this is true. The last time I came here to serve as Yang Mabing in Baoshan, he said that I had refused to agree to the marriage, which is very insightful!"

Cuicui glanced at her grandfather and saw that his eyes were red. She knew that he had drunk wine and was unhappy about something, so she thought to herself: "Who made you angry?" When the boat arrived home, her grandfather walked home with an unnatural smile. Cuicui guarded the boat and didn't hear her grandfather's voice for a long time. She rushed home to take a look and saw her grandfather sitting on the threshold knitting the ears of straw shoes.

Cuicui saw that her grandfather was looking very wrong, so she knelt down in front of him.

"Grandpa, what's wrong with you?"

"Tianbao is really dead! The second elder was angry with us and thought that we were responsible for what happened to his family!"

Someone shouted loudly by the stream for the ferry transfer, and my grandfather hurried out. Cuicui sat on the straw in the corner of the room, feeling very confused. She started crying when her grandfather didn't come back.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [8]: Chapter 7

seventeen

Grandfather seemed to be angry with someone, the smile on his face decreased, and he didn't pay much attention to Cuicui. Cuicuixiang knew that her grandfather no longer loved her very much, but she didn't seem to understand the reason. But it doesn't take a long time. Once the days pass, it will be fine. The two of them were still rowing, and everything was still the same, but there seemed to be an invisible gap somewhere in their lives that could never be filled. Grandfather could still receive smooth hospitality from the boat manager when he crossed the river, but it was obvious that the boat manager had not forgotten the reason for the death of the deceased. The two elders left Beihe and went down to Chenzhou for six hundred miles. They searched for the body of the poor brother along the river, but to no avail. They posted signs at various customs offices and returned to Chadong. Not long after, he crossed east Sichuan to handle goods, and met an old boatman during the transition. The old boatman looked at the young man, who seemed to have completely forgotten what happened in the past, and started talking to him.

"Second elder, the sun is very poisonous in June. You are going to the east of Sichuan again. Aren't you afraid of hard work?"

"If you want food, you have to go on the road even if your head is burning!"

"We need to eat! My parents still don't have much to eat!"

"If you have food to eat, Daddy said young people shouldn't just eat at home and do nothing!"

"How is your father?"

"If you eat well, there's nothing wrong with it."

"Your brother is bad, and I think your father seems to have become much weaker because of this incident!" When the second elder heard this, he fell silent and looked at the white tower behind the old boatman's house. He seemed to think of the old incident that night in the past, and he felt very melancholy. The old boatman glanced at the young man timidly, and a smile spread on his face.

"Second elder, my Cuicui said that one night in May, she had a dream..." He looked at the second elder again and saw that he was not surprised or bored, so he continued, "She had a strange dream. She said that she was lifted up by a person's singing in her dream, and she picked a handful of saxifrage from the hanging rock!"

The second old man turned his head to the side and made a wry smile, thinking in his mind, "The old man is really good at showing off." This meaning seemed to be revealed in that wry smile, and it was still seen by the old boatman. The old boatman said: "Second old man, don't you believe it?"

The young man said: "Why don't I believe it? Because I was a fool and sang on the rock over there one night!"

The old boatman was embarrassed by an unexpected truth and stammered: "This is true... this is false..."

"Why is it not true? The death of Elder Tianbao is not true!"

"But, but..."

The original intention of the old boatman's pretentiousness was to make things clearer, but when he first narrated this incident, there was a mistake in his method, so he was misunderstood by the two elders. He was just about to tell the story of that night, but the boat had already arrived at the shore. As soon as the two elders jumped on the shore, they wanted to leave. The old boatman looked even more busy on the boat and said:

"Second old man, second old man, wait a minute. I have something to say to you. Didn't you mention that before - you do stupid things? You are not stupid. That's why others really asked you to make a fool of yourself with that song!"

Although the young man stood still, he said softly: "That's enough, don't say any more."

The old boatman said: "Second old man, I heard someone said that you don't want a roller but a ferry. This is what Yang Mabing said, isn't it true?"

The young man said: "So what if we need a ferry?"

The old boatman looked at the two elders and suddenly felt happy. He couldn't help calling Cuicui loudly, asking her to come down to the stream. However, I don’t know whether Cuicui didn’t come out of the house on purpose or went elsewhere. For a long time, I didn’t see Cuicui’s shadow or hear the girl’s voice. The second elder waited for a while, looked at the old boatman's demeanor, and without saying a word, he smiled and strode away with the porter carrying the cargo of vermicelli and white sugar.

After passing Bixinuo Hill, the two of them walked along a winding bamboo forest. At this time, the porter spoke:

"Nuo sends you two old men off. Look at the way you carry out the ferry. I'm very happy with you!"

The two elders remained silent, and the man said again:

"Second elder, he asked you whether you want a mill or a ferry. Are you really prepared to be his grandson-in-law and take over his ferry?"

The two elders laughed, and the man said again:

"Second elder, if you assign me this matter, I want that mill. The output of a mill can produce seven liters of rice and three buckets of chaff per day."

The second elder said: "When I come back, I will go to my father and ask him to be a matchmaker with the Zhongzhai people and let you get the mill. As for me, I think it would be good to get a ferry. It's just that the old guy is crooked and unlucky, and he killed the elder."

The old boatman felt very unhappy when he saw the two elders leaving like that and Cuicui still not coming out. Walking home to check, it turns out that Cuicui is not at home. After a while, Cuicui came back from the hill with a basket, only to find out that Cuicui had gone out to dig bamboo shoots early in the morning.

"Cui Cui, I called you for a long time, but you didn't hear me!"

"What are you calling me for?"

"A transition...an acquaintance, we talk about you...you won't agree when I call you!"

"Who is it?"

"Guess, Cuicui. He's not a stranger... you know him!"

Cuicui remembered what she had overheard in the bamboo forest at the right time, blushed, and remained silent for a long time.

The old boatman asked: "Cui Cui, how many bamboo shoots have you got?"

Cuicui tipped the bamboo basket to the ground. Except for a dozen small bamboo shoots, there was only a handful of saxifrage.

The old boatman glanced at Cuicui, and Cuicui ran away with blushing cheeks. eighteen

A month passed normally, and all the ailments in people's hearts seemed to be cured under those long days. The weather is extremely hot, and everyone is busy sweating, washing rivers with cold water, and eating rice wine. There is no need to worry about anything, because worries cannot be retained in people's lives. Cuicui would go to the side of the White Pagoda facing away from the sun to take a nap every day. It was extremely cool at the height, and there were so many bamboo sparrows and other birds in the bamboo bamboo poles on the two mountains that made her sing. As a result, she was filled with the songs of mountain birds in her sleep, and the dreams she had were often the most absurd ones.

This is not man's fault. Poets will write entire poems on a trivial matter. A sculptor can carve out a lifelike human figure on a piece of stone. A painter can use green, red, or gray to paint magical paintings. Who doesn't come up with such weird results just because he is obsessed with the shadow of a smile or the mark of a frown? Cuicui couldn't use words, stones, or colors to transfer the love and hate in her heart to something else, but she could only let her heart race through all the most absurd things. From this secret, she often got surprises and excitement. The completely unknown future shook her emotions so much that she could not completely hide her obsession from her grandfather.

As for my grandfather, it can be said that he knows everything. But in fact he is a clueless person. He understood that Cuicui didn't hate the old man, but he didn't understand what the young man and the old man were like. He encountered obstacles both at the ship's headquarters and at his second boss's office, but he was not discouraged.

"It has to be arranged correctly so that it makes sense and everything has its destiny!" He thought, and it became even more apparent that good things were going to take a long time. When he opened his eyes, his dreams were more absurd and vast than that of his granddaughter Cuicui. He inquired from various transitional locals about the lives of his father and his son, and cared about them as if they were members of his own family. But it was also strange, so he was afraid of seeing the captain and his wife. When he saw them, he didn't know what to say. He just rubbed his hands together in an old temper, completely losing his composure. Both the old man and his son understood what he meant, but the dead man embedded a desolate impression in their hearts. The two of them spent their days together as if they had no idea what the old boatman meant.

It was clear that I was not dreaming during the white night. When I talked to Cuicui in the morning, the grandfather would say:

"Cui Cui, Cuicui, I had a very scary dream last night!"

Cuicui asked: "What kind of dream are you afraid of?"

Pretending to be thinking about a dream, while carefully looking at Cuicui's little face and long eyebrows, he told her about the good dream he had with his eyes open at the same time. Needless to say, those dreams turned out not to be seriously frightening.

All rivers must return to the sea. No matter how far the words are spoken at the beginning, they will always return to the thing that made Cuicui blush in the end. When Cuicui seemed unhappy and a little embarrassed, the old boatman seemed a little frightened again and was busy explaining, using gossip to cover up the original meaning of the question he said.

"Cui Cui, that's not what I said, that's not what I said. Grandpa is old and confused, and he makes a lot of jokes."

But sometimes Cuicui would quietly listen to her grandfather's silly jokes, and she would still smile with her lips pursed after hearing them.

Cuicui will suddenly say:

"Grandpa, you are really a little confused!"

The grandfather listened and stopped talking. He would say, "I have a lot of things on my mind," but before he could say it, he was called away by the transition man.

The weather was getting hot, and the transitional people came from afar, carrying a seventy-pound load on their shoulders. When they arrived at the stream, they were eager to cool off and could not walk. They would squat under the rocks by the tea jar to drink herbal tea, exchange "blow stick" pipes with their companions, and chat with the ferryman. Many unfounded words were spoken from then on, and the old boatman heard them. Transitional people sometimes wash their feet and bathe by the stream because the water is clean. They sit longer and talk more. Grandfather conveyed some words to Cuicui, and Cuicui learned many things. The prices of goods fluctuated, the cost of riding in sedan chairs and boats, how the dozen or so big rafts moved when the man who launched the raft floated his raft off the beach, eating meat cigarettes on the small cigarette boat, how Bigfoot burned cigarettes...everything was prepared.

Nuo sent the two elders back to Chadong from eastern Sichuan. It was almost dusk, and the stream was very quiet. My grandfather and Cuicui were looking at radish seedlings in the vegetable garden. Cuicui slept for a long time during the day and felt a little lonely. She seemed to hear someone shouting for help, so she rushed down to the stream first. When I got off the ridge, I saw two people standing by the pier. Their backs were clearly visible in the shadow of the setting sun. It was Nuo who was sending his two elders off to his home! Cuicui was shocked, and like a little animal when it sees a hunter, she turned around and ran away into the mangosteen forest. But when the two people by the stream heard the sound of footsteps, they turned around and understood what had happened. After waiting for a while, no one came again, and the old man screamed again.

The old boatman heard it clearly, but he still squatted on the radish field and counted vegetables, feeling funny in his heart. He had already seen Cuicui walking away. He knew that Cuicui must have figured out who the transition person was, so he squatted on the high rock and ignored him. Cuicui didn't care about anything, and the transition man begged her not to do it, but she couldn't, so she had no choice but to yell at the transition in her throat. Chang Nian called a few times, but when no one came, he stopped and said to the second elder, "What the hell is this? Could it be that the old one got sick and fell over, leaving Cuicui alone?" The second elder said, "Wait and see, it's nothing!" and waited for a while. Because they were waiting quietly here, the old boatman on the garden was thinking in his heart: "Is it the second old man?" He seemed to be worried about annoying Cuicui, so he remained squatting still.

But after a while, the streamside shouted "Transition" again, and the voice was a little different. This was really the voice of the second elder. Are you angry? Have you waited a long time? Are you arguing? The old boatman ran to the stream while making random estimates. When I arrived at the stream, I saw two people already on the boat, one of them was the two elders. The old boatman shouted in surprise:

"Ah, second old man, you are back!"

The young man seemed very unhappy, "I'm back. What's wrong with your ferry? No one came after waiting for a long time!"

"I thought -" The old boatman looked around and saw no trace of Cuicui. He only saw a yellow dog running from the bamboo forest on the mountain. Knowing that Cuicui had gone up the mountain, he changed his mind and said, "I thought you had crossed the border."

"We've crossed the ferry! You're not allowed to get on the boat. Who dares to sail?" As the elder said, a water bird flew across the water. "The kingfisher has returned to its nest. We have to rush home for dinner!"

"Good morning, good morning to Hejie," said the old boatman, who had jumped on the boat and said in his heart, "don't you want to inherit this ferry?" He pulled the rope and the boat left the shore.

"Second old man, I'm very tired from the journey!..."

The old boatman said, and the two elders listened without comment or emotion. When the boat reached the shore, the young man and his family members carried burdens and walked over the mountains. That indifferent impression remained in the old boatman's mind, so he clenched his fists behind the two men and threatened them three times, roared softly, and pulled the boat back. nineteen

Cuicui ran towards the bamboo forest, but the old boatman still didn't get off the boat for a long time. From the perspective of Nuo and Sui, the future was obviously unfavorable. Although every word in the old boatman's words stated that "this matter has an edge", his timid explanation was extremely inappropriate. The second elder thought of his brother and misinterpreted the matter. He was a little resentful, a little angry. On the third day after returning home, someone from Zhongzhai came to check on Shun Shun. He stayed at Shun Shun's house on He Street and asked Shun Shun to find out if the second elder was still interested in accepting the new mill. Shun Shun asked the second elder what his opinion was.

The second elder said: "Dad, you think this is for you. You can be happy with multiple mills and people at home, so you agreed. If it is for me, I will think about it carefully and talk about it some time later. I don't know yet whether I should get a mill or a ferry: I may only be allowed to hold a ferry in my life!"

The man who checked the wind remembered the words and returned to Zhongzhai to report his fate. When he was transitioning to Bixiyu, he saw the old boatman. He remembered what the two elders said and couldn't help but smile. The old boatman found out that he was from Zhongzhai, so he asked him what he was doing in Chadong.

The man from Zhongzhai who had a sense of proportion said:

"I didn't do anything. I just crossed the river and sat at the owner's house for a while."

"If you don't go to the Three Treasures Hall for anything, you will definitely have something to say after sitting there!"

"I just said a few words."

"What did you say?" The man stopped talking, but the old boatman asked, "I heard that you Zhongzhai people want to give a mill by the river and your daughter to Shunshun on the river street. Is there any clue about this?"

The Zhongzhai man smiled and said, "It's done. I asked Shunshun, and Shunshun was very willing to marry a Zhongzhai man. I also asked the young man..."

"What do you think, young man?"

"He said: There is a mill and a ferry in front of me. I originally wanted the ferry, but now I have to decide on the mill. The ferry is movable, not as fixed as the mill. This guy knows how to make an abacus."

The man from Zhongzhai was a rice farm agent, and he spoke very eloquently. He knew exactly what "ferry" meant, but he didn't tell the truth. He saw the old boatman's mouth squirming and wanted to speak, but the people from Zhongzhai rushed to say:

"Everything is fate, and no one can control anything. Poor the eldest son of the Shunshun family, he looks so dignified, but he will drown in the water!"

The old boatman was stabbed in the heart by these words and swallowed what he wanted to ask. After the people from Zhongzhai came ashore, the old boatman stood at the bow of the boat, lost in thought for a long time. I also got used to the desolate atmosphere during the transition between the two elders a few days ago, and I felt very unhappy.

Cuicui had a great time playing under the tower. She walked to the high rock beside the stream to ask her grandfather to sing. Seeing that her grandfather ignored her, she complained all the way down to the stream. When she arrived at the stream, she saw her grandfather looking very depressed. She didn't understand why. Cuicui came, and grandfather looked at Cuicui's cheerful black face and smiled crudely. There were people carrying cargo across the stream, so they didn't say anything and silently pulled the boat across the stream. When they reached the center, they started singing loudly. After crossing the river, grandfather jumped onto the pier and approached Cuicui, still smiling broadly and stroking his forehead with his hand.

Cuicui said:

"Grandpa, what's the matter? Are you sick? You lie down in the shade and have a rest. I'll take care of the boat!"

"You take charge of the ship, okay, this ship is yours to take charge of!"

The old boatman seemed to be seriously ill with Sha and felt depressed. Although he still looked like he was stabbed in front of Cuicui, he walked back to the house alone and found some broken porcelain pieces. He pricked his arms and legs a few times and drew some black blood, then he lay down on the bed and slept.

Cuicui guarded the boat by herself, but she felt strangely happy in her heart, thinking: "Grandpa won't sing for me, I can sing myself!"

She sang many songs. The old boatman lay on the bed with his eyes closed and listened to each sentence, feeling very confused. But he knew that this was not a serious illness that could knock him down. He would still get up tomorrow. He wanted to go to the city tomorrow and have a look at He Street, but he thought of many other things.

But on the second day, even though I got out of bed, my head was still heavy. Grandfather is really sick. Cuicui seemed to be more sensible. She cooked a can of Dafa medicine for her grandfather and forced him to drink it. She also picked garlic sprouts from the vegetable garden behind the house and soaked them in rice soup to make sour garlic sprouts. While taking care of the boat, he always took the time to rush home to see his grandfather and ask about this and that. Grandfather didn't say anything, he was just suffering from a secret. After lying in bed for three days, he actually recovered. After walking around for a while in front of and behind the house, my bones were still stiff, and I thought of something in my mind, so I prepared to go into the city and cross the river street. Cuicui couldn't see that her grandfather had something important that required him to go to the city that day, so she begged him not to go.

The old boatman rubbed his hands together, trying to gauge whether he should tell him the reason. Cuicui's dark oval face and watery eyes made him heave a sigh of relief.

He said: "I have something urgent and I have to go today!"

Cuicui smiled bitterly and said: "No matter how important it is, it's not..."

The old boatman knew Cuicui's temper and was already a little unhappy after hearing Cuicui's tone. He stopped saying that he was leaving. He put the bamboo tube and flower gaitah he was going to take away on the table, and said with a flattering smile, "Don't go. You are worried that I will fall to death, so I won't go. I thought the weather won't be very hot in the morning. I'll finish my business in the city and come back - I don't have to go, I'll go tomorrow!"

Cuicui said softly and gently: "You can go tomorrow. Your legs are still weak. Just lie down for a day and then get up."

The old boatman seemed to be unwilling to give in, and walked out with his hands flying. There was a mallet used to hit straw sandals at the door, which almost tripped him. When she stabilized herself, Cuicui smiled bitterly and said, "Grandpa, look, I'm still not convinced!" The old boatman picked up the mallet, threw it towards the corner of the room, and said, "Grandpa is old! I'll shoot a leopard for you in a few days!"

In the afternoon, it rained for a while, but the old boatman and Cuicui had a good discussion and still entered the city. Cuicui couldn't accompany her grandfather into the city, so she asked the yellow dog to follow him. The old boatman was dragged by an acquaintance in the city to discuss the price of salt and rice for a long time. After passing the garrison office for a while to look at the newly purchased mules and horses, he went to Shunshun's house on Hejie Street. When I got there, I saw Shunshun playing cards with three people. It was inconvenient to talk, so I stood behind and watched the cards for a while. Later, Shunshun invited him to drink, but declined on the pretext that he was too sick to drink. The game was not over, and the old boatman didn't want to leave immediately. Shunshun didn't seem to understand what he was waiting to say, but only paid attention to the cards in his hand. Later, another person noticed the old boatman's demeanor and asked him if there was something wrong. The old boatman Fang rubbed his big hands coyly and said he had nothing else to do and just wanted to have a few words with the boatman.

The captain of the boat understood the reason for looking at the cards for a long time, and turned around and smiled at the old boatman.

"Why didn't you tell me earlier? If you didn't tell me, I thought you were trying to learn from my cards!"

"It's nothing, just a few or five words. I don't dare to say it because I don't want to spoil the fun." The captain threw the cards on the table, smiled and walked to the back room, with the old boatman following behind.

"What's the matter?" the captain asked, as if he had understood what he was going to say, and seemed a little bit sympathetic.

"I heard a man from Zhongzhai say that you are planning to fight against your relatives with the Zhongzhai regiment. Is this true?"

Seeing the old boatman's eyes staring at his face, the captain thought of a satisfactory answer and said, "That's what happened." Then he agreed, but what he meant was, "How about having you?"

The old boatman said, "Really?"

That one said naturally: "Really." But the meaning still included "So what if it's true?"

The old boatman pretended to be calm and asked: "Where are the two elders?"

The captain said: "It's been a long time since we took the boat to Taoyuan!"

It turned out that the second elder had a quarrel with his father before leaving. Although the captain's temperament was extremely generous, it was clear that he did not want a girl who indirectly killed his first son to be the wife of his second son. According to local customs, these things are considered to be children's matters and adults have nothing to do with them. The second elder is really happy with Cuicui, and Cuicui loves the second elder. He is not opposed to this kind of love-hate marriage. But somehow, the old boatman's concern about this matter caused the two fathers and sons to have a little misunderstanding about the old boatman. The boat manager thought of recent family events and thought they were all related to this old and good-hearted boatman. Although there is no visible form, there is a knot in my heart.

The captain didn't let the old boatman speak anymore, so he said in a rough tone:

"Uncle, forget it, we should just drink wine and stop thinking about singing for our children! I fully understand what you mean, and you mean well. But I also beg you to understand what I mean. I think we should only talk about our own affairs, and it is not appropriate to think about the paths of those young people."

After the old boatman was knocked down by a dull punch, he still wanted to say a few words, but the boatman didn't let him have another chance to speak and pulled him out to the card table.

The old boatman had nothing to say. When he looked at the captain, although the captain was still laughing and talking about many jokes, he seemed to be very depressed and threw the cards on the table hard. The old boatman said nothing, put on his bamboo hat, and left by himself.

It was still early, so the old boatman was very unhappy and went into the city to find Yang Mabing again. The cavalryman was drinking. Although the old boatman was curing his illness, he couldn't help but drink three or five drinks. Returning to Bixi Nuo, it was a little warm after walking, so I wiped my body with the stream water again. Feeling very tired, Cuicui guarded the boat and went home to sleep.

The weather was very depressing at dusk, and red dragonflies were flying everywhere on the stream. Clouds have risen in the sky, and the hot wind is blowing the bamboo rafts on the two mountains loudly. It looks like it will rain heavily in the evening. Cuicui stayed on the ferry, watching the dragonflies flying around the stream, and her heart was in a state of confusion. Seeing the miserable color on his grandfather's face, he felt uneasy and hurried back home. I first thought that my grandfather must have gone to bed early, but unexpectedly he was still sitting on the threshold playing straw sandals!

"Grandpa, how many pairs of straw sandals do you want? Aren't there fourteen pairs on the bedside? Why don't you lie down for a while?"

The old boatman remained silent, but stood up, looked up to the sky, and said softly:

"Cui Cui, it's going to rain heavily and thunder loudly tonight! Turn around and tie our boat to the rock. It's going to rain very hard."

Cuicui said: "Grandpa, I'm so scared!" Cuicui didn't seem to be afraid of the thunderstorm that was coming at night.

The old boatman seemed to understand what he meant, so he said, "What are you afraid of? Everything that is going to come will come, don't be afraid!"

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [9]: Chapter 8

twenty

Sure enough, it rained heavily during the night, accompanied by frightening thunder. When the lightning passed over the ridge of the roof, it was followed by an explosion. Cuicui was shaking in the dark. Grandfather also woke up. Knowing that she was scared and worried that she would catch a cold, he got up and put a piece of cloth over her body. Grandfather said:

"Cui Cui, don't be afraid!"

Cuicui said: "I'm not afraid!" After saying that, she wanted to say: "Grandpa, I'm not afraid if you are here!" There was a big thunder, followed by a loud and heavy crashing sound that surpassed the sound of rain. Both of them thought that the cliff on the stream bank must have collapsed, and they were worried that the ferry would be crushed under the cliff.

The grandfather and grandson lay silently on the bed listening to the sound of rain and thunder.

But no matter how heavy the rain was, Cuicui still fell asleep soon after. It was already dawn when I woke up, and the rain had stopped at some point. I could only hear the sound of water pouring into the stream from the ravines on both sides of the stream. Cuicui got up and saw that her grandfather seemed to be sleeping well, opened the door and walked out. The front door has become a ditch, and a stream of water flows from behind the tower, falling straight down from the cliff in front. And there is such a kind of temporary waterway everywhere. The vegetable garden next to the house has been washed away by mountains and rivers, and the vegetable seedlings are buried in the coarse sand and mud. When I walked ahead and looked into the stream, I realized that the water in the stream had also surged. It had overflowed the pier, and the water was almost reaching the teapot. The road down to the pier is like a small river, flowing with yellow muddy water. The cable held by the crossing stream at the transition was also submerged, and the ferry anchored under the cliff had disappeared.

Cuicui saw that the cliff in front of the house did not collapse, so she did not pay attention to the loss of the ferry at that time. But after a while, she couldn't find it when she searched high and low. When she accidentally looked back, she saw that the white tower behind the house had disappeared. I was so surprised that I hurriedly ran to the back of the house, only to find that the white tower had collapsed and a large pile of bricks and stones was spread there in a very messy manner. Cuicui was so frightened that she called her grandfather in a sharp voice. Grandfather didn't get up or agree, so he hurried back home. When he got to his bedside, he shook his grandfather for a long time, but he still didn't say anything. It turned out that the old man had died when the thunderstorm was about to subside.

Cuicui then burst into tears.

After a while, some people who were running errands across Sichuan from Chadong arrived at the stream and shouted across the stream. Cuicui was crying by the stove while boiling water to bathe her dead grandfather.

The man thought that the old boatman and his family were still awake and were in a hurry to cross the river. His shouts were not answered, so he threw small stones across the stream and hit them on the roof. Cuicui walked out with runny nose and tears, ran to the stream and stood in front of a high cliff.

"Hey, it's getting late! Bring the boat over!"

"The ship has escaped!"

"What did your grandfather do? He is in charge of the ship and has responsibilities!"

"He was in charge of the ship. He was in charge of the ship for fifty years—he's dead!"

Cuicui burst into tears while talking to the people across the stream. The man knew that the old boatman was dead and had to go to the city to report the news, so he said:

"Are you really dead? Don't cry. I'll go back and inform them and ask them to get a boat to bring things!"

When the man returned to the edge of Chadong City, he reported the incident as soon as he saw an acquaintance. Soon, everyone in Chadong City and outside knew the news. The boat on the river street went smoothly, so he sent someone to find an empty boat, took a pair of white wooden boxes, and immediately headed for Bixinuo. However, the Yang Ma soldiers in the city rushed to Bixi Nuo with an old soldier, cut down dozens of large moso bamboos, and made rafts out of kudzu vines as a temporary ferry for transportation. After weaving the raft, I propped it up and went to the bank at Cuicui's house. I left the veteran guarding the bamboo raft to ferry people there. I ran to Cuicui's house to see the deceased. With tears wet, I touched my old friend who was lying stiff on the bed for a while, and then hurriedly did what he needed to do. Later, helpers arrived, including the coffins transported from the big river boats. The old Taoist priest who lived in the city also brought many magical instruments, an old linen robe, and a big rooster to perform his duties and take care of the water. He also crossed over on the raft. People in the family were coming in and out, but Cuicui just sat on a low stool by the stove and cried.

At noon, the boat manager Shun Shun also came, accompanied by a man carrying a bag of rice, a jar of wine, and a leg of pork. When he saw Cuicui, he said:

"Cui Cui, I know grandpa is dead. Old people must die. Don't worry, I have everything!" After looking at everything, he went back.

In the afternoon, the coffin was carried out, and some of the helpers went home. In the evening, only the old Taoist priest, Yang Mabing and the two young elders sent by the Shunshun family were left. Before dusk, the old Taoist priest cut some flowers out of red and green paper and made some candlesticks out of yellow clay. After dark, yellow nine-grade wax was lit on the small table in front of the coffin, incense was burned, and small candles were lit around the coffin. The old Taoist priest put on the blue linen sermon robe and began the funeral coffin circling ceremony. The old Taoist priest led the way with a small paper flag, the filial son was second, and the horse soldiers were behind, slowly circling around the lonely coffin. The two elders stood in the empty space beside the stove, playing gongs and cymbals randomly. The old Taoist priest closed his eyes and walked away, singing and humming to comfort the souls of the dead. When he mentioned the fragrance of flowers all year round in the Western Paradise where the souls of the dead go, the old horse soldier scattered the paper flowers in the wooden tray high on the coffin to symbolize the situation in the Western Paradise.

At midnight, the things were done, the firecrackers were set off, and the candles were almost extinguished. With tears in her eyes, Cuicui hurried to the stove to light the fire and prepare supper for the helpers. After a midnight snack, the old Taoist lay on the bed of the dead and fell asleep. The few remaining people had to keep vigil in front of the coffin according to the rules. The old horse soldier sang a funeral song for everyone, using an empty rice-measuring wooden sling as a snare drum and banging the skinned side of his hands while singing - singing about "Wang Xiang lying on the ice" and "Yellow Incense Fan Pillow".

Cuicui cried all day long and was busy all day long. By now she was extremely tired and leaned her head on the coffin and squinted. The two elders had had supper with the cavalry soldiers for many years, and after drinking two glasses of wine, they were still in good spirits, so they took turns singing in the funeral hall. But after a while, Cuicui woke up again, as if she was dreaming of something. After waking up, she realized that her grandfather was dead, so she started crying quietly again.

"Cui Cui, Cuicui, don't cry, you can't cry after you die!"

The bald man Chen Sisi then told a joke about a newlywed crying. The words were mixed with three or five crude words, which caused the two people to laugh for a long time. The yellow dog barked outside the house. Cuicui opened the door and stood outside for a while. She heard the sound of insects everywhere. The moonlight in the sky was very beautiful, and the big stars were embedded in the clear blue sky, which was very calm and gentle. Cuicui thought:

"Is this true? Is grandpa really dead?"

The old horse soldier originally followed her, because he knew that girls have narrow hearts. Maybe the fire would be buried in the ashes without any traces being revealed. Seeing her grandfather gone, she would be hopeless and jump off a cliff, hoping to follow her grandfather. Therefore, be careful to monitor Cuicui at all times.

When the old horse soldier saw Cuicui standing stupidly, not looking back after a long time, he coughed and called Cuicui and said:

"Cui Cui, the dew has fallen, isn't it cold?"

"It's not cold."

“The weather is great!”

"Ah..." A big meteor made Cuicui shout softly.

Then another meteor streaked down from the south. There are hooting owls towards the creek.

"Cui Cui," the old horse soldier had already stood side by side with Cui Cui, and said very gently, "go into the room and go to sleep. Don't think wildly!"

Cuicui silently returned to her grandfather's coffin, sat on the ground and sobbed again. The two people who had been staying in the house for many years had fallen asleep.

Yang Mabing said quietly: "Don't cry! Don't cry! Your grandpa is also sad. What's the use of crying with swollen eyes and swollen throat? Listen to me, I know everything about grandpa, and I have everything on my side. I will arrange everything well, right?" You deserve your grandfather. I can arrange everything. I want someone who will be happy with you to take over this ferry! Even though I am old, I can still fight with them, Cuicui, don’t worry, I will do everything!

A rooster crows somewhere in the distance, and the old Taoist priest mumbles to himself in confusion on the bed over there: "Is it dawn? It's early!" Twenty-one

Early in the morning, helpers came with ropes and poles from the city.

When the old boatman's small white wood coffin was carried by six people to the hillside behind the collapsed tower for burial, the boatman obeyed, followed by the horse soldiers, Cuicui, the old Taoist priest, and the yellow dog. When he arrived at the pre-dug square well, the old Taoist jumped down first according to the rules, placed some cinnabar particles and white rice in the corners and center of the well, and burned some paper money. When he climbed out of the well, he asked the coffin bearer to start. Cuicui screamed with a hoarse throat, lying on the coffin without getting up. The cavalry soldiers pulled her apart before they could move the coffin. After a while, the coffin was lowered into the trap, the rope was pulled away, the direction was adjusted, and it was covered by new soil. Cuicui was still sitting on the ground sobbing. The old Taoist priest wanted to go back to the city to prepare a meal for others, so he left in the interim. The captain entrusted everything to the old horse soldier and hurried back to the city. The helpers all went to the stream to wash their hands. Everyone in the family had their own business, and knowing the situation of the family, it was inconvenient to disturb the owner any more, and they stopped disturbing the master and went home. So there were only three people left in Bixinuo, one was Cuicui, one was an old horse soldier, and the other was the bald Chen Sisi who was sent by the boat owner to temporarily help take care of the ferry. The yellow dog was hit with a stone by the bald head. He seemed very unhappy with the bald head and kept barking softly.

In the afternoon, Cuicui discussed with the old horse soldier, asking the old horse soldier to go back to the city and leave the horse to the people in the camp to take care of him, and then return to Bixinuo to accompany her. When the old horse soldiers returned to Bixiyu, the bald Chen Sisi was sent back to the city.

Cuicui still went to get the ferry with the yellow dog herself, and let the old horse soldiers sit on the high cliffs on the stream bank to play, or sing to her with his old throat.

Three days later, the captain came to discuss taking Cuicui to live at home, but Cuicui wanted to guard her grandfather's grave and was unwilling to go to the city immediately. She only asked the ship manager to go to the city government office to say a word, and promised Yang Mabing to live with her temporarily. The ship manager agreed to the matter and left.

Since Yang Mabing was over fifty years old, his story-telling skills were better than Cuicui's grandfather. In addition, he paid special attention to everything and worked diligently and cleanly. Therefore, he lived with Cuicui, making Cuicui seem to have lost a grandfather but gained a new uncle. Someone asked about her poor grandfather during the transition, and thinking of her grandfather at dusk made Cuicui sad and felt very desolate. But this desolation will gradually fade away as the days go by. The two of them would sit on the high cliff by the stream in front of their door every day at dusk and night, and talk about old things about the poor grandfather lying in the wet soil. There were many things that Cuicui had never known before, which made Cuicui's heart soften even more. He also talked about how Cuicui's father, a soldier who wanted love but cherished his reputation, dressed up like a Green Camp soldier at that time and attracted girls. He also talked about how Cuicui's mother was good at singing, and how popular the songs she sang were at that time.

Times have changed, and everything is naturally different. The emperor no longer controls the country, but ordinary people don't care! Yang Mabing recalled that when he was a young groom, he took the horses to Bixiyu and sang to Cuicui's mother. Cuicui's mother ignored her, but now he was the orphan's only supporter and trustee. He couldn't help but smile bitterly.

Because the two would talk about their grandfather and the family every evening, and later they talked about everything before the old boatman's death. Cuicui understood many things that her grandfather did not mention when he was alive. The singing of the two elders, the death of Shunshun's eldest son, the indifference of Shunshun and his son to their grandfather, the people of Zhongzhai using the mill as a dowry to seduce the two elders. The two elders remember the death of their brother, and because they could not get the attention of Cuicui, they were forced by their family to accept the mill. After Cuicui figured it out, she cried all night.

After 47, the captain of the ship Shunshun sent someone to invite the horse soldiers to go into the city and discuss taking Cuicui to his home as the daughter-in-law of the second elder. But since the two elders are in Chenzhou, they should not mention this matter for now, and move to live across Hejie. We will see what they want when they come back. Ma Bing thought he had to ask Cuicui about this matter. When he came back, he told Cuicui about Shunshun's intention, and then made suggestions for Cuicui. He thought that since the status was not settled, it was not good to go to a stranger's house. It was better to wait in Bixi Nuo. When the two elders came back by boat, we would see what they wanted.

After deciding on this method, the old horse soldier thought that the two elders would come back soon, so he still left the horses in the care of the camp master, kept Cuicui as his companion in Bixi Nuo, and lived his life day by day.

The white pagoda of Bixinuo is related to the Feng Shui of Chadong. If the pagoda collapsed, it would be impossible to build a new one. In addition to the city's business management, tax bureau, and various businesses and civilians who donated some money, there were also people from various villages who took out booklets to donate money. In order to achieve the goal of this pagoda, it is not a benefit to any one person, but should be used to accumulate virtue and benefit, and everyone should have the opportunity to donate money. Therefore, a large bamboo tube with knots at both ends was placed on the ferry. A cut was sawed in the middle, so that passers-by could freely put money in. When the bamboo tube was full, the horsemen took it to the chief official in the city, and brought another bamboo tube back. As soon as the transition man saw that the old boatman was gone and there was a white thread on Cuicui's braid, he knew that the old man had finished his work and lay down quietly in the pit. He looked at Cuicui with sympathy, took out the money and stuffed it into the bamboo tube. "God bless you. If you die, go to the West, and if you live, you will always be safe." Cuicui understood the meaning of those who donated money. She felt sad and hurriedly put her body on her back to pull the boat.

In winter, the collapsed white tower was rebuilt. But the young man who sang under the moon, causing Cuicui to gently lift her soul to the sound of singing in her sleep, had not yet returned to Chadong.

…………

This person may never come back, maybe he will come back "tomorrow"!

Completed in the winter of 1933 and in the spring of 1934

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

"Border Town" is complete. For more exciting TXT e-books, please visit the classic book library www.jingdianbook.com to download for free.

Statement: The TXT content of "Border Town" is shared by classic book library netizens and is only used for learning and communication among book friends. Please delete it within 24 hours after downloading. If you like this content, you are welcome to go to major bookstores to buy the genuine version and read it.