Copyright information

Cataloging-in-Publication (CIP) data

Luotuo Xiangzi/edited by the editorial board of "Youth Must-Read Series". ─Guangzhou: Guangdong World Book Publishing Company, 2009.10

(A must-read book series for teenagers)

ISBN 978-7-5100-1109-2

I. Luo... Ⅱ. Green…Ⅲ． Novel—China—Modern—Abbreviated Version IV. I246.5

Chinese Version Library CIP Data Verification (2009) No. 170155

Camel Xiangzi

Editor in charge: Tao Sha

Responsible technical editor: Liu Shangjin Yu Kunze

Publisher: Guangdong World Book Publishing Company

(No. 25, Dajiangchong, Xingang West Road, Guangzhou, Postcode: 510300)

Tel: (020) 84451969 84453623

http://www.gdst.com.cn

Email:pub@gdst.com.cn

Preface

Lao She (1899～1966), whose original name was Shu Qingchun, also named Sheyu, was a native of Beijing. He lost his father when he was young and came from a poor family. He was influenced by the social life, ideological concepts and aesthetic tastes of the lower class civilians in old Beijing. In 1924, he went to England to teach and began literary creation, attracting attention with his humorous style. After returning to China in 1930, he created works such as "Camel Xiangzi" and "Divorce", establishing his status as the first urban civilian literature in the history of modern literature. During the Anti-Japanese War, he presided over the work of the All-China Literary and Art Circles Anti-Enemy Association and wrote the million-word novel "Four Generations Under One Roof". After the founding of New China, he produced dramas such as "Longxugou" and "Teahouse" and won the title of "People's Artist".

The novel tells the tragic story of a rickshaw driver named Xiangzi in Peking in the old days.

Xiangzi moved from the countryside to the city and became a rickshaw puller. He is young and strong, has no bad habits, and is full of confidence in the future. His only wish is to buy a car of his own and become an "independent" and "free" driver. However, the three setbacks in buying a car have shattered his life ideals and plunged him into despair.

Emotionally, Xiangzi also lost his initiative. Huniu, the daughter of the owner of the garage Liu Siye, liked Xiangzi. Although Xiangzi hated her for being old and ugly, he did not resist her temptation and married her. After the marriage, Xiangzi used Huniu's private money to buy an old car owned by Erqiangzi. But not long after, Huniu died of dystocia, and Xiangzi had to sell the car to bury her. This time the family was broken up and everyone died, making Xiangzi extremely sad. After Huniu died, Xiao Fuzi's careful care made him truly fall in love with this poor girl. He seemed to have the courage to live again, but fate still liked to play tricks on him. Due to the pressure of life, Xiao Fuzi became a prostitute, and hung himself before Xiangzi could "get ready". This made Xiangzi's last glimmer of hope come to nothing.

From then on, Xiangzi completely collapsed and fell. He ate, drank, whored, gambled, cheated and cheated, and even sold his life, until he finally became a dregs of society and a walking corpse, waiting for death.

"Luotuo Xiangzi" uses Beijing spoken language, dialects, and some descriptions of old Beijing's customs and customs. It reads in a friendly, natural and catchy way. It is a classic work of modern vernacular novels.

one

What we want to talk about is Xiangzi, not Camel. "Camel" is just a nickname for Xiangzi. So, let’s talk about Xiangzi first. As for the relationship between "Camel" and Xiangzi, let's just talk about it casually here.

There are many schools of foreign rickshaw pullers in Peiping: those who are young, strong, and agile, who pay attention to renting beautiful cars, pulling them "all day long", and being free to put the cart out and put it away whenever they like; those who pull out the cart at a fixed "port"[1]

Or once the house door is opened, waiting for the owner to take the express train; if it is done, maybe one or two yuan can be obtained at once; if it happens, the whole day may be wasted, and even the "car share" is not secured, but it doesn't matter. Guys in this group probably have two hopes: either to get a rental car; or to buy their own car. Once you have your own car, it doesn't matter if you get a rental car or rent a car. Anyway, the car is your own.

Those who are a little older than this group, or those who are a little less able to run due to physical reasons, or those who dare not waste a day due to family reasons, probably most of them pull 80% new cars; both the people and the cars are quite beautiful, so they can still maintain considerable dignity when asking for prices. The driver of this group may pull for "a whole day" or "for half a day". In the latter case, because they still have considerable energy, they are always "late" no matter winter or summer[2]

. Of course, you need more attention and skills at night than during the day; you will naturally earn more money.

Those who are over forty and under twenty may find it difficult to gain a position in the first two factions. Their cars were broken and they didn't dare to stay late, so they could only get out early in the morning, hoping to move from early morning to three or four in the afternoon, so they could get out of the car and eat their own grain. Their cars are broken and they run slowly, so they walk more and ask for less money. They are the ones who go to the melon market, fruit market, and vegetable market to carry goods. They have little money, but there is no need to run fast.

Here, those under the age of twenty—some have been doing this since they were eleven or twelve years old—few can transform into beautiful coachmen after the age of twenty, because they were injured in childhood and it is difficult to become strong. They may have been pulling rickshaws all their lives, but they have never been in the limelight even pulling rickshaws. Some of the people over forty have been pulling carts for ten or eight years, and the deterioration of their muscles has made them sit behind others. They gradually know that sooner or later they will die on the road. Their manner of pulling a cart, their adaptability when bargaining, and their walking around and around are all enough to remind them of their past glory, and to encourage those who come after them with their noses. However, this glory cannot reduce the darkness of the future at all, and they themselves often sigh slightly when wiping their sweat. However, compared with other rickshaw drivers in their forties, they seem to have not yet reached home. These people had never thought that they could have anything to do with a foreign car before, and they only picked up the handlebars when the line between life and death was no longer clear. The patrolman or school janitor who was dismissed, the hawker who had exhausted all his capital, or the unemployed craftsman, who had nothing to sell and no job left, gritted his teeth and with tears in his eyes, embarked on this road to death. These people have sold their prime period of life, and now they are pouring their blood and sweat on the road. If you have no strength, no experience, and no friends, you will not get good cheer even among your peers. They pull the poorest carts, and the belts may be deflated many times a day; while pulling people, they have to beg for forgiveness, even though fifteen copper coins is considered a sweet deal.

In addition, due to the unique environment and knowledge, some cart drivers formed another sect. Those who were born in Xiyuan and Haidian are naturally more convenient to go to Xishan, Yanjing, and Tsinghua; similarly, those who are outside Andingmen can go to Qinghe, Beiyuan; those who are outside Yongdingmen can go to Nanyuan... This is a long trip, and you don't want to take a single seat; because one trip is just one trip, and you don't bother to scrape together for three or five coppers. But they are not as spirited as the rickshaw pullers in Dongjiaomin Lane. These fastidious foreign traders pull them all the way from Jiaomin Lane to Yuquan Mountain, the Summer Palace or Xishan Mountain. Being angry is not a big deal. Most of the reasons why ordinary coachmen cannot compete for this business are because these people who eat foreign food have some unique knowledge and they can speak foreign languages. The British soldiers and the French soldiers all knew about Longevity Mountain, Yonghe Temple, and the "Eight Hutongs". They have their own foreign language and do not teach it to others. Their running style is also special. They take four or six steps, neither fast nor slow. They keep their heads down and don't look away. They walk close to the roadside, giving off an air of being indifferent to the world and having expertise of their own. Because they are holding foreigners, they don't need to wear a hoodie, but they all wear long-sleeved white coats, white or black trousers with particularly fat legs, and thin straps on their ankles; their feet are wide, double-faced, blue cloth shoes with thousand-layer soles; they are clean, neat, and elegant. Once they see such clothes, other drivers will no longer come to compete for seats and race cars. They seem to belong to another industry.

With this simple analysis, when we talk about Xiangzi's status, it is as accurate as talking about - we hope - a certain kind of nail on a machine. Before Xiangzi became associated with the nickname "Camel", he was a relatively free foreign rickshaw driver. This means that he belongs to the category of young, strong and owning his own car: his own car and his own life are all in his own hands, a high-class rickshaw driver. This is no easy task. It took one, two, or at least three or four years; one drop of sweat, two drops of sweat, or countless thousands of drops of sweat to earn that car. I earned that car through gritting my teeth in the wind and rain, and suffering from food and tea. That car was the total result and reward of all his struggles and hardships, like a badge of a warrior who had experienced many battles. When he was renting someone else's car, he would go from morning to night, from east to west, from south to north, like a top being spun by others; he had no self. But in this rotation, his eyes were not dazzled, and his mind was not confused. He kept thinking about a car far away, a car that could make him free and independent, like his own hands and feet. With his own car, he can no longer be annoyed by the people who tie the car, and he does not have to deal with others; with his own strength and a foreign car, he can have food when he opens his eyes.

He is not afraid of hardship, and he does not have the bad habits of ordinary rickshaw drivers that are forgivable and inconvenient to follow. His intelligence and hard work are enough to make his aspirations a reality. If his environment was better, or he received more education, he would definitely not fall into the "rubber group", and no matter what he did, he would never let down his opportunity. Unfortunately, he had to pull a rickshaw; well, in this job he also proved his ability and intelligence. It was as if he could be a good ghost even in hell. He grew up in the countryside, lost his parents and several acres of thin farmland, and ran to the city when he was eighteen years old. With the strength and honesty of a country boy, he has done almost everything where he can make a living by working hard. However, he soon realized that pulling carts was an easier way to make money; doing other hard work, the income was limited; pulling carts had many changes and opportunities, and he didn't know when and where he would encounter rewards that were more than expected. Of course, he also knew that such an opportunity was not entirely accidental, but that both the person and the car must be in good spirits and have goods to sell in order to meet someone who knows the goods. After thinking about it, he believed that he had the qualifications: he was strong and young; the only difference was that he had not run yet and did not dare to pull a beautiful car as soon as he got started. But this is not an insurmountable difficulty. With his body and strength as a basis, he only needs to test it for ten days and a half, and he will definitely be able to run well. Then he can rent a new car, and maybe he can get a chartered car soon. After living frugally for a year or two, or even three or four years, he will be able to buy a car by himself, a beautiful car! Looking at his powerful muscles, he thought that it was only a matter of time. This was a wish and goal that could be achieved, and it was definitely not a dream!

His stature and muscles have developed in advance of his years; in his twenties, he is already very large and tall. Although his limbs have not been molded into a certain pattern by the years, he already looks like an adult - an adult with an innocent and mischievous look on his face and body. Looking at the high-class coachman, he planned how to get into his waist so as to show off his iron fan-like chest and straight back; he turned his head to look at his own shoulders, how wide and majestic they were! After cutting off the waist, he put on white trousers with fat legs, and tied the trousers with chicken intestine straps, revealing those "outstanding" big feet! Yes, he would undoubtedly be the best driver; he laughed to himself like a fool. He had no appearance; what made him lovely was the spirit in his face. His head is not very big, with round eyes, a fleshy nose, two very short and thick eyebrows, and his head is always shaved brightly. There is no extra flesh on the cheeks, and the neck is almost as thick as the side of the head; the face is always flushed, and what is particularly bright is a large scar between the cheekbone and the right ear - when I was a child, I slept under a tree.

Got chewed by a donkey. He didn't pay much attention to his appearance. He loved his face as much as he loved his body, both of which were so strong and hard; he seemed to count his face among his limbs, as long as they were hard and hard. Yes, after arriving in the city, he could still stand upside down for a long time with his head down. Standing like this, he felt that he was like a tree, with no part up and down that was not straight.

He is indeed a bit like a tree, strong, silent, and alive. He has his own plans and some ideas, but he doesn't feel comfortable telling others about them. Among foreign rickshaw pullers, personal grievances and difficulties are the public talk. At the "rickshaw gate", in small teahouses, and in large courtyards, everyone reports, describes or makes noises about their own affairs, and then these things become everyone's property, passed from place to place like folk songs. Xiangzi was from the country, and he could not speak as eloquently as people from the city. If eloquence was a gift, he was born not to talk much, and he had no desire to imitate the sharp-tongued people in the city. He knows his stuff and doesn't like to discuss it with others. Because his mouth is always idle, he has time to think, and his eyes seem to be looking into his own heart. As long as he makes up his mind, he will follow the path opened in his heart; if it doesn't work, he can stay silent for a day or two, gritting his teeth as if biting his own heart! He decided to pull the cart and did so. After renting a broken car, he practiced his legs first. I didn’t get any money on the first day. Business was good the next day, but after lying down for two days, his ankles were swollen like two gourds and he could no longer lift them up. He endured the pain no matter what. He knew that this was inevitable and that this was a hurdle that must be passed when pulling a cart. Unless he passed this level, he could not run boldly.

After his feet healed, he dared to run. This made him very happy, because there was nothing else to be afraid of: he was very familiar with the place names, and it didn't matter even if he sometimes took a detour. Fortunately, he had plenty of strength. The method of pulling a cart is not too difficult to understand based on his experience of pushing, pulling, carrying, and picking. Besides, he has his own ideas: pay more attention and strive less for victory, and nothing will go wrong. As for bargaining for seats, he is too slow-talking and aggressive to get past those old guys. Knowing this shortcoming, he simply didn't go to the "car entrance"; he put it wherever there was no car. In this secluded place, he could negotiate the price calmly, and sometimes he would not ask for the price, and would just say: "Sit on it, and we'll give it to you!" His look was so honest, and his face was so simple and cute, people seemed to have no choice but to trust him, and didn't dare to think that this stupid big man could knock people off. Even if people are suspicious, they can only suspect that he is a country boy who has recently come to the city. He probably doesn't know the way, so he can't tell the price. When people ask, "Do you know him?" he pretends to be stupid or smiles in a playful way, leaving people wondering what to do.

Within two or three weeks he had slipped his leg out. He knows his running style looks good. Running style is evidence of the driver's ability and qualifications. The one with his legs splayed on the ground like a pair of cattail fans was undoubtedly a newcomer who had just come from the countryside. The ones with their heads bowed very deep, their feet scraping the ground, running and walking at about the same speed, but showing signs of running, were those over fifty years old. Those who are experienced but have little strength have another method: they draw their chests inward and have a deep angle; they lift their legs very high; and they poke their heads as they walk. In this way, they give the appearance of running hard, but in fact they are not faster than others at all; they rely on their "appearance" to maintain their dignity. Of course, Xiangzi would never adopt these postures. His legs are long and his stride is long, and his waist is very stable. He runs without much noise, and stretches a little with every step. The handlebars don't move, making the seat feel safe and comfortable. When he said stop, no matter how fast he was running, he would rub his big feet lightly on the ground and then he would stop; his strength seemed to be able to reach every part of the car. His back was slightly bent and his hands were loosely clasped around the handlebars. He moved neatly and accurately; he ran very fast without any hint of haste, fast and without danger. Even in a chartered car, it must be considered very expensive.

He got a new car. From the day he changed the car, he found out that the one he rented - with a soft bow, copper work, large raincloth curtains, double lights, and a large copper horn with a thin neck - was worth more than a hundred yuan; if the paint and copper work had a little iron, a hundred yuan would be enough to stop it. Roughly speaking, as long as he has 100 yuan, he can buy a car. Suddenly I thought, if I can have a dime left a day, one hundred yuan is a thousand days, a thousand days! Putting a thousand days together, he could hardly calculate how far it was. However, he made up his mind to buy a car in a thousand days or ten thousand days! The first step he should take, he thought about it, is to get a chartered car. If he meets a man who socializes a lot and has many dinner parties, on average there are more than ten dinner parties in a month, he can save two or three yuan for transportation and meals. In addition, he saves another eighty yuan every month, maybe three to five yuan, and he can have fifty or sixty yuan left in a year! In this way, his hope will be much closer. He doesn't smoke, drink, or gamble. He doesn't have any hobbies or family burdens. As long as he grits his teeth, everything will be fine. He swore to himself that in a year and a half, he - Xiangzi - must make his own car! It's a current one, don't see an old car like a new one.

He really got a monthly subscription. However, the facts do not entirely help hope. Yes, he gritted his teeth, but a year and a half later he still hadn't fulfilled his wish. The chartered car was indeed pulled up, and things were carefully watched; unfortunately, things in the world are not one-dimensional. He takes care of himself, but his employer will not let him go because of this; it may be three or two months, or ten or eight days, blow it! He had to find something else to do. Naturally, he had to look for work while also looking for a place to sit; he couldn't be idle while riding and looking for horses. At this time of year, he often made mistakes. He still had to work hard, not just for a day of chewing grains[3]

, and continue to save money to buy a car. But it's never appropriate to force yourself up: when he pulled up the car, he couldn't concentrate on running. He seemed to be thinking about something. The more he thought about it, the more frightened and angry he became. If this continues, when will I be able to buy a car? Why is this so? Could it be that I am not a strong person? While he was thinking so wildly, he forgot his usual caution. Broken copper and magnets were stuck on the leather wheels, and the cannon was fired; the car had to be put away. More seriously, I sometimes bumped into pedestrians, and once I even lost my axle cover in my rush to squeeze past. If he was pulling a chartered car, these mistakes would never have happened; as soon as he put things aside, he felt unhappy and became a little stunned. If he crashes his car, he will naturally have to pay for it; this makes him even more anxious and adds fuel to the fire; for fear of causing even greater trouble, he sometimes sleeps all day long. When he opened his eyes, he realized that the day had passed in vain, and he regretted and hated himself again. Also, in this period, the more anxious he is, the more he suffers from himself, and the more irregular he eats and drinks. He thinks that he is made of iron, but he can still get sick if he dares to do so. When he was sick, he was reluctant to spend money to buy medicine, so he held on. As a result, his illness became more and more serious, and he not only had to buy medicine, but also had to rest for several days at a stretch. These difficulties made him grit his teeth and work harder, but the money to buy a car did not speed up the process. In three years, he collected enough money!

He couldn't wait any longer. The original plan was to buy the most complete, latest and most desirable car, but now I have to settle for a hundred dollars. Can't wait any longer; if something happens, I'll lose a few more! It happened that there was a car that had just been ordered (custom-made and he had no money to pick it up) that was pretty much the same as what he expected. It was originally worth more than a hundred, but because he gave up the deposit, the car shop was willing to ask for less. Xiangzi's face was red, his hands were trembling, and he slapped out ninety-six yuan: "I want this car!" The shop owner planned to squeeze in a round number, and after talking for a long time, he pulled his car out and in again, opened the shed, put it down again, and honked the horn. If one of the steel bars is soft, take it back and throw it in my face! One hundred yuan, let's blow it!" Xiangzi counted the money again: "I want this car, ninety-six!" The shop owner knew that he had met a thoughtful person. He looked at the money and sighed: "Become a friend, and the car is yours; guarantee for six months: Unless you smash the big box, I will repair it for free; take the insurance policy!"

Xiangzi's hands trembled even more. He picked up the insurance policy and pulled up the car, almost crying. Pull it to a secluded place, look at your car carefully, and try to shine your face on the paint board! The more I look at it, the cuter it becomes, and even the things that don’t quite meet my ideals can be forgiven, because it’s already my own car. It seemed that he could take a break from looking at the car for the time being. He sat on the new footrest of the water dustpan and looked at the shiny brass horn on the handlebar. He suddenly remembered that he was twenty-two years old this year. Because his parents died early, he forgot when his birthday was. Since coming to the city, he has not celebrated a birthday. Well, I bought a new car today. Even if it’s my birthday, it’s easy to remember that what’s yours belongs to the car, and since the car is your own hard work, there’s no reason why you can’t count people and cars together.

How to live this "double life"? Xiangzi had an idea: the first transaction must be with a well-dressed person, definitely not a woman. It is best to pull to the front door, followed by Dongan Market. When he arrived, he should have a meal at the best food stall, such as hot biscuits stuffed with fried mutton or something like that. After eating, if there is a good deal, I will buy one or two more; if there is not, I will collect the car; it is my birthday!

Since he got this car, his life has become more and more exciting. Whether it's a monthly contract or a free contract, he doesn't have to worry about his "car share" every day. How much money he gets is all his own. When you feel comfortable in your heart, you will be more kind to others, and your business will go more smoothly. After working for half a year, his hope became even greater: if he continues like this, if he works for two years, or at most two years, he will be able to buy another car, one, two... and he can also drive a factory!

However, most hopes are in vain, and Xiangzi's is no exception.

[1]

The car entrance is the parking place.

[2]

Staying late means leaving the car after four o'clock in the afternoon and waiting until dawn.

[3]

Chew the grain and eat it.

two

Since buying a car, Xiangzi has run faster. The work at hand became easier, and I became more courageous. But he was always extra careful about his car, but when he looked at himself and then at his car, he felt something was wrong, if he didn't run quickly.

Since Xiangzi came to the city, he has grown more than an inch taller. He himself felt that he still had to grow. Yes, his skin and appearance were firmer and firmer, and he had a small mustache on his upper lip; but he thought he should grow taller. When he came to a small house door or a street door and had to lower his head to get in, he didn't say anything, but he secretly liked it because he was already so tall and felt that he was still growing. He seemed to be both an adult and a child, which was very interesting.

Such a big man pulls into such a beautiful car, his own car, the bow is so soft that even the handlebars move slightly; the cabin is so bright, the cushions are so white, and the horn is so loud; how can he be worthy of himself if he can't run fast, and how can he be worthy of that car? This is not vanity, but seems to be a responsibility. Unless you run fast or fly, you will not be able to give full play to your own power and the beauty of the car. That car is really cute. After driving it for half a year, it seems that there is consciousness and emotion everywhere. Whenever Xiangzi twists his waist, squats down, or straightens his back, the car immediately responds and provides Xiangzi with the most satisfactory help. There is no awkwardness between him and it. When he arrived at a place with few people on the ground, Xiangzi could hold the handle with one hand, and the slightly squeaking leather wheel urged him to run quickly and steadily like a sharp breeze. When they got to the spot, Xiangzi's clothes were sweating so hard that they looked like they had just been fished out of a basin. He felt tired, but it was very pleasant and something to be proud of, a kind of fatigue, just like riding a famous horse for dozens of miles. If being bold doesn't mean being careless, Xiangzi was not careless when he ran boldly. If you don't run quickly, you will be sorry for others; if you run quickly and damage the car, you will be sorry for yourself. The car is his life, and he knows how to be careful. Putting caution and boldness together, he became more and more confident. He was convinced that both himself and the car were made of iron.

Therefore, he not only dared to run boldly, but also did not think much about when to get out of the car. He felt that pulling a cart to earn a living was the most courageous thing in the world; if he was willing to go out, no one could stop him. He didn't pay much attention to the rumors from outside. He didn't pay much attention to the fact that there were soldiers in Xiyuan again, that there was another war in Changxindian, that another case was being investigated outside Xizhimen, or that Qihua Gate had been closed for a long time. Naturally, all the shops on the street had opened their doors, and the road was full of armed police and security teams. He didn't want to deliberately make himself feel uncomfortable, so he hurriedly collected the car like others. However, he didn't believe the rumors. He knew how to be cautious, especially since the car was his own, but he was a country boy after all, unlike city dwellers who heard wind and rain. Besides, his body makes him believe that even if he unfortunately gets to the "point", he will definitely have a way to avoid suffering a big loss; he is not easily bullied, with such a big stature and such broad shoulders!

News and rumors of war grow with the spring wheat almost every year. Wheat ears and bayonets can be regarded as symbols of the hopes and fears of northerners. When Xiangzi's new car was just half a year old, it was the time when wheat needed spring rain. The spring rain may not fall in accordance with the people's expectations, but war will always come regardless of whether anyone hopes for it or not. Rumor or truth, Xiangzi seemed to have forgotten that he had ever worked as a farmer; he didn't care much about how the war destroyed the fields, nor did he pay much attention to the presence or absence of spring rain. He only cares about his car, which can produce pancakes and all kinds of food. It is a versatile field that follows him docilely, a living land and a treasure land. Because of the lack of rain and the news of the war, the price of food has increased; Xiangzi knows this. But like the people in the city, he only complains about the price of food, but has no idea at all; food is expensive, yes, it is expensive, but who can make it cheap? This attitude made him only care about his own life and put all disasters and disasters behind him.

If the people in the city are helpless about everything, they may make up rumors—sometimes completely out of thin air, sometimes making up the truth—in order to show that they are not stupid and inactive. They are like small fishes. When they are idle, they put their mouths on the water surface and spit out a few completely useless bubbles. Among the rumors, the most interesting ones are about war. Other kinds of rumors are often just rumors, just like talking about ghosts and foxes, and they won't actually see ghosts after talking about them. Regarding the war, precisely because there is no correct information at all, rumors can have immediate effect. The short program may be very different from the real story, but as for the existence of the war itself, it is nine times out of ten correct. "There's going to be a war!" Once these words are uttered, there will definitely be a war sooner or later. As for who will fight whom and how, each person will have his own say. It’s not that Xiangzi didn’t know this. However, although the people who work hard - including cart pullers - will not welcome war, it is not necessarily bad luck if they encounter it. Whenever a war breaks out, the wealthy people are the most panicked. As soon as they heard the bad news, they quickly wanted to run for their lives; money made them come and run faster. They themselves can't run because their legs and feet are too heavy with money. They have to hire many people to make their legs, the boxes have to be carried, and the old and young men and women have to have carts to pull them. At this time, the hands and feet of the guys who specialize in limbs all become expensive: "Qianmen, East Station!" "Where?" "East-Train-Station!" "Oh, just give me one dollar and forty cents! No need to reject it, the war will be chaotic!"

It was under this situation that Xiangzi pulled the car out of the city. Rumors have been circulating for more than ten days, and the prices of things have increased, but the war seems to be still far away, and it will not reach Peiping for a while. Xiangzi continued to pull the cart as usual and was not lazy because of the rumors. One day, when he came to Xicheng, he saw some cracks. No one at the west entrance of Huguosi Street or Xinjiekou said "Where's Xiyuan? Where's Tsinghua University?" He wandered around Xinjiekou for a while. I heard that the carts were no longer allowed to leave the city. They were catching carts outside Xizhimen, including large carts, small carts, mule carts, and foreign carts. He wanted to drink a cup of tea, so he drove south; the calmness at the entrance revealed the real danger. He was quite courageous, but he couldn't deliberately take a dead end. At this juncture, two cars came from the south, and they seemed to be students. The driver of the cart walked sideways[1]

Shout: "Is there anyone who went to Tsinghua University? Hi, Tsinghua University!"

No one commented on the cars at the entrance. Some looked at the two cars and smiled lightly, while others sat with small cigarette pouches in their mouths without even raising their heads. The two cars continued to shout: "Are they all mute? Tsinghua University!"

"Two dollars, I'll go!" A young bald dwarf agreed jokingly when others were silent. "Pull over here! Find another one!" The two cars stopped.

The young bald man was stunned for a while, as if he didn't know what to do. Others haven't moved yet. Xiangzi realized that it must be dangerous to go out of the city. Otherwise, why would no one snatch two yuan from Tsinghua University—usually only twenty or thirty cents? He didn't want to go either. But the bald young man seemed to have made up his mind. If someone wanted to go with him, he would risk it all. He took a look at Xiangzi and said, "Big man, how are you?"

The word "big man" made Xiangzi smile. This was a compliment. His mind opened up: With such praise, it seems that the short and bold bald man should be praised; besides, two yuan is two yuan, this is not something that happens every day. Danger? Is it just that coincidental? Besides, someone said two days ago that the Temple of Heaven was full of soldiers; what he saw with his own eyes was that there were not even a single soldier there. With this thought, he pulled the car over.

When we arrived at Xizhimen, there were almost no pedestrians in the cave. Xiangzi's heart became colder. The bald man also saw that something was wrong, but he still smiled and said: "Hello[2]

, man! Is it a blessing or a curse? I am what I am today[3]

La! "Xiangzi knew that things were going to be bad, but after living on the streets for several years, he couldn't let it go and act like a bitch!

After leaving Xizhimen, he didn't even meet a car; Xiangzi lowered his head, not daring to look to the left or right of the road. His heart seemed to go straight to his side. When he arrived at Gaoliang Bridge, he took a look around and found no soldiers, so he felt relieved again. Two dollars is just two dollars, he thought, how could he find such a cool thing if he didn't have the guts. He usually didn't like to talk, but this time he was willing to talk to the bald dwarf. The street was so eerily quiet. "Shall we take the dirt road? On the road -" "Of course," the short man guessed what he meant, "as long as we get on the sidewalk, we will have some confidence!"

Before they could even get to the sidewalk, Xiangzi and the bald dwarf were captured by a dozen soldiers, including the car and the men!

Although it was already the time for temples to be opened in Miaofeng Mountain to offer incense, the coldness at night was not something that a single shirt could block. Xiangzi didn't have any encumbrances on him, except for a gray military uniform upper body and a pair of blue military trousers, both of which were stinky with sweat - they had been like this since they were on him. From this shabby military uniform, he remembered the white cloth jacket and the indane blue trousers jacket he originally wore; how clean and decent they were! Yes, there are many more decent things in the world than Danshi Linlan, but Xiangzi knows how difficult it is for him to get so clean and tidy. Smelling the smell of sweat on his body now, he regarded his previous struggles and successes as extremely glorious, magnifying them ten times compared to their original glory. The more he thought about the past, the more he hated those soldiers. They took away his clothes, shoes, hats, foreign car, and even the cloth belt around his waist. They only left him with bruises all over his body and blisters on his feet! However, clothes are nothing; the injuries on the body will heal soon. His car, the car he earned with years of hard work, is gone! It has disappeared since it was brought to the camp! All the previous hardships and difficulties can be forgotten in a blink of an eye, but he can't forget this car!

He is not afraid of hardship; but getting another car is not something that can be done casually; it will take at least several years of work! All the success in the past was in vain. He had to start a new business again! Xiangzi shed tears! Not only did he hate those soldiers, but he also hated everything in the world. Why do you bully people to this extent? Why? "Why?" he shouted. This cry--albeit a little more cheerful--immediately reminded him of danger. Don't worry about anything else, it's important to escape!

Where is he? He himself couldn't answer it correctly. These days, as he ran with the soldiers, sweat flowed from his head to his heels. To walk, he had to carry, pull or push the soldiers' things; to stop, he had to carry water, light a fire, and feed the animals. He only knew how to put the last strength into his hands and feet all day long, and his heart became blank. At night, he seemed dead the moment he hit the ground, and never opening his eyes again wasn't necessarily a bad thing.

At first, he seemed to remember that the soldiers retreated to the Miaofeng Mountain area. When he reached the back mountain, he only focused on climbing the mountain. He always thought that he might fall into the mountain stream and have his bones and flesh eaten away by wild eagles, without caring about anything else. After wandering around the mountains for many days, one day suddenly there were fewer and fewer mountain roads. When the sun was behind him, he saw the plains in the distance. The sound of the dinner bugle called back the soldiers who had left the camp, and some men with guns brought some camels.

camel! Xiangzi's heart skipped a beat, and suddenly he began to think, just like a lost person who suddenly found a familiar sign and remembered everything very quickly. A camel can't cross mountains, it must have reached flat ground. In his knowledge, he knew that camels were raised in three stores in the western part of Beijing, such as Balizhuang, Huangcun, Beixin'an, Moshikou, and Wulitun. Did he go around and around until he reached the entrance of the millstone? What kind of strategy is this - even if these soldiers who only know how to run away and rob have a strategy - he doesn't know. But he did know that if this was really Moshikou, the soldiers would not be able to get out of the mountain and would want to find a way to survive down the mountain. Moshikou is a good place. You can go back to Xishan to the northeast; you can go to Changxindian or Fengtai to the south; and you can go straight to the exit to the west. He planned this for the soldiers, and he also drew a way for himself: it was time for him to escape. If the soldiers retreated into the chaotic mountains again, he would be in danger of starving to death even if he escaped from the hands of the soldiers. If you want to escape, you have to take advantage of this opportunity. If he ran from here, he believed that he could run back to Haidian in one step! Although there were so many places in between, he knew them all; as soon as he closed his eyes, he had a map: This is the entrance to the millstone - God, this must be the entrance to the millstone! ——He turned northeast, passed Jinding Mountain, and the tomb of King Li, which was the Badachu; he ran eastward from the Fourth Platform to Xingzikou, and arrived at Nanxinzhuang. In order to get some shelter, he had better walk along the mountain, from Beixinzhuang to the north, passing Weijia Village; to the north, passing the South River Beach; and then to the north, to the top of Hongshan Mountain, to Prince Jie's Mansion and Jingyi Garden! After finding Jingyi Garden, he could touch Haidian with his eyes closed! His heart is going to beat out of his chest! These days, all his blood seemed to flow to his limbs; at this moment, it seemed that all his blood had returned to his heart. His heart was hot, but his limbs became cold; his whole body was trembling with desire!

Until midnight, he still couldn't close his eyes. Hope made him happy, fear frightened him, he wanted to sleep, but could not, and his limbs lay scattered on some hay. There was no sound, only the stars in the sky accompanied my heartbeat. The camel suddenly whined twice and was not far away from him. He liked the sound, which was as sad as hearing a cock crow suddenly at night, but also felt a little comforting.

There was the sound of cannons in the distance, very far away, but it was the sound of cannons clearly. He didn't dare to move, but chaos immediately broke out in the camp. He held his breath, the opportunity had come! He must have known that the soldiers had to retreat again, and they must go into the mountains. The experience of these days made him know that the fighting methods of these soldiers are the same as those of bees trapped in a house, they just bump around everywhere. With the sound of cannons, the soldiers must run; then, he himself should be more alert. He slowly, holding his breath, crawled on the ground, aiming to find the camels. He knew that the camels would not help him, but since he and they were both prisoners, it seemed that he must have some sympathy. The military camp became even more chaotic, and he found camels - lying like several mounds in the darkness. Apart from heavy breathing, there was no movement at all. It seemed that everything in the world was peaceful. This will teach him to be more courageous. He crouched beside the camel like a soldier behind a sandbag. He quickly came up with a theory: the sound of artillery came from the south. Even if it was not a true battle, it was at least a warning that "this road is blocked." Then, these soldiers have to flee back to the mountains. If they really went up the mountain, they couldn't take the camels with them. In this way, the fate of the camel is also his fate. If they had not given up the animals, he would have followed suit; if they had forgotten the camels, he could have escaped. He put his ear to the ground and listened for the sound of footsteps, his heart beating very fast.

I don’t know how long I waited, but no one came to pull the camel. He boldly sat up and looked between the camel's humps. He couldn't see anything. It was extremely dark everywhere. Run away! No matter good or bad, run away!

[1]

On one side, it's the same.

[2]

Say hello, do it, break in.

[3]

Today is today, which means that at a critical moment, success or failure will depend on today.

three

Xiangzi stopped just after running a few dozen steps. It turned out that Xiangzi was reluctant to part with those camels, because he only had one life now. Even if it is a piece of hemp rope on the ground, he is willing to pick it up. Even if it is useless, it can comfort him a little. At least he has a hemp rope in his hand and it is not completely empty. Escape is important, but what's the use of a naked life? He had to take away these animals. Although he hadn't thought of the use of the camels, they had to be something, and they were quite big.

He pulled the camel up. He didn't know much about how to treat camels, but he was not afraid of them because he came from the countryside and he dared to get close to the animals. The camels stood up very slowly, and he didn't care to check whether they were all tied together. When he felt that he could pull them away, he took a step forward, whether he was pulling up one of them or all of them.

As soon as he took a step, he regretted it. A camel—one accustomed to carrying weight in its mouth—cannot move fast. Not only do you have to walk slowly, but you also have to walk very carefully. Camels are afraid of slipping; a puddle of water or a patch of mud can cause them to split their legs or twist their knees. The value of a camel is all in its four legs; once the legs are gone, it's all gone! And Xiangzi wanted to escape!

However, he refused to put them down again. Everything is left to God. You can’t let go of a free camel!

Because he is used to pulling cars, Xiangzi has some ability to identify directions. Even so, he was a little confused now. When he found the camels, his heart seemed to be focused on them; when he pulled them up, he couldn't figure out which was which. The sky was so dark and his heart was so anxious. Even if he could look at the stars and adjust the direction, he didn't dare to do so calmly; the stars - in his eyes - seemed to be more anxious than him. You touch me, I touch you, moving around in the black sky. Xiangzi didn't dare to look at the sky anymore. He lowered his head, feeling anxious but not daring to move forward faster. He remembered this: since he was pulling a camel, he had to follow the road and no longer follow the hillside. It is a straight road from Moshikou - if this is Moshikou - to Huangcun. This is the camel's road, and it doesn't go far at all. "Don't go too far" has great value in the heart of a foreign rickshaw driver. However, there is no cover on this road! What if we encounter soldiers again? Even if he didn't meet any soldiers, would his shabby military uniform, mud on his face, and long hair make people believe that he was a camel puller? Not like a camel puller! Looks like a deserter! It is a trivial matter for a deserter to be taken away by the officials; if the people in the village catch him, he will at least be buried alive! Thinking of this, he started to tremble, and the thumping sound of camel hooves behind him suddenly startled him. If he wanted to escape, he still had to give up these burdens. But he refused to let go of the rope on the camel's nose. Let's go, let's go, wherever you go, say whatever you encounter; if you live, you can earn a few animals; if you die, accept your fate!

However, he took off his military uniform and tore off his collar; the pair of responsible copper buttons were also ripped off and thrown into the darkness without even making a sound. Then, he put the collarless and buttonless single coat diagonally across his body and tied the two sleeves into a knot on his chest, like a backpack. This, he thought, would reduce the suspicion of being defeated; he also rolled up his trousers. He knew it wasn't quite like a camel puller, but at least it wasn't quite like a deserter. Coupled with the mud on his face and the sweat on his body, it is probably enough to make him a "soot kid"[1]

. His thinking is very slow, but he thinks carefully and executes it as soon as he thinks of it. In the dark night, no one saw him; he didn't need to do this immediately, but he couldn't wait. He didn't know the time, maybe it would be dawn suddenly. Since he didn't follow the mountain road, he had no chance to hide during the day; if he wanted to keep going on the road during the day, he had to make people believe that he was a "coal black man." After thinking of this, he immediately did so. He felt a little happier, as if the danger was over and Peiping was in front of him. He had to get to the city steadily and quickly, because he didn't have any money or any solid food on him, so he couldn't waste any more time. Thinking of this, he wanted to ride a camel to save some energy and endure hunger for a while longer. But he didn't dare to ride it. Even if it was very stable, he had to teach the camel to kneel before he could get on; time was valuable, so he couldn't bother with it anymore. Besides, if he went up that high, it would be harder to see clearly what was under his feet. If the camel fell, he would have to accompany him. No, just leave.

He probably felt that he was walking along the main road; he was a little confused about the direction and location. It was late at night, and the fatigue of many days and the fear of running away made him feel physically and mentally uncomfortable. After walking some distance, his steps were so even and slow that he gradually seemed to feel sleepy. The night was still dark, and there was some cold and wet mist in the air, which made me feel even more confused. Looking hard at the ground, there always seemed to be bumps on the ground, but when I put my feet down, it was flat. This kind of caution and being deceived made him even less quiet, almost a little irritable. He simply ignored the ground, looked straight ahead, and walked with his feet rubbing the ground. Seeing nothing outside, it was as if all the darkness in the world were waiting for him. He stepped out of the darkness and then into the darkness; behind him was the silent camel.

As he gradually got used to the darkness outside, his heart seemed to stop moving, and he couldn't help but close his eyes. I don't know if I'm going forward or if I'm standing still. I just feel wave after wave in my heart, like a undulating black sea. The darkness is connected with my heart, all are vague, all ups and downs, all in a trance. Suddenly, something moved in my heart, as if I remembered something, and I seemed to hear some sounds, which I couldn't explain clearly; but I opened my eyes again. He was indeed walking forward, forgetting what he had just thought of, and there was no movement around. My heart beat for a while, then gradually calmed down again. He told himself not to close his eyes or think too much; getting to the city quickly was the first priority. But if he doesn't think about anything, his eyes will easily close again. He must be thinking about something and must be awake. He knew that if he collapsed, he could sleep for three days at a stretch. What are you thinking about? His head was a little dizzy, his body felt damp and sad, his hair was itchy, his feet were sore, and his mouth was dry and astringent. He couldn't think of anything else but pity himself. However, he couldn't even think about his own affairs in detail. His head was so empty and dizzy, as if he had forgotten himself as soon as he thought of himself, like a candle that was about to go out and couldn't even illuminate himself. Coupled with the darkness around him, he felt like he was floating in a cloud of black air. Although he knew that he still existed and was still moving forward, there was nothing else to prove where he was walking. It was like floating alone in the deserted sea and not trusting himself. He had never experienced such uncertainty and sadness, and absolute loneliness. Although he doesn't like to make friends on weekdays, he is not afraid of being alone in the sun, with the sun shining on his limbs and various things presented to him. Now, he wasn't afraid, but he couldn't bear the uncertainty of everything. If the camels were as dishonest as mules and horses, maybe he could be taught to cheer up and pay attention to them, but the camels were so docile, which made him impatient. When he was in the most dazed state, he suddenly doubted whether the camels were still behind him and startled him; he seemed to believe that these big animals would gently get into the dark fork in the road, but he had no idea that they would gradually melt away like pulling a block of ice.

At some point, he sat down. If he died like this, even if he was informed after death, he would not remember how and why he sat down. He sat there for five minutes, maybe an hour, he didn't know. He didn't know whether he sat down first and then fell asleep, or fell asleep first and then sat down. He probably fell asleep first and then sat down, because his fatigue made him fall asleep standing up.

He suddenly woke up. It was not the natural kind of waking up from sleep, but a sudden start, like jumping from one world to another, all in the blink of an eye. What he saw was still darkness, but he heard a rooster crow very clearly. It was so clear, as if something hard had scratched his brain. He was fully awake. What about camels? He couldn't think of anything else. The rope was still in his hand, and the camel was still beside him. His heart became quiet. Too lazy to get up. He was sore and lazy, and he didn't want to get up, but he didn't dare to sleep again. He had to think, think carefully, about good ideas. It was then that he remembered his car and shouted "Why?"

"Why?" But shouting in vain is of no use. He went to touch the camels, but he still didn't know how many he had pulled. I figured it out, there were three in total. He didn't think whether it was too much or too little; he focused his thoughts on these three animals. Although he had not yet decided what to do, he vaguely thought that his future depended on these three animals.

"Why don't you sell them and buy a car?" He almost jumped! But he didn't move, as if he felt ashamed for not having thought of such the most natural and easiest way before. The joy outweighed the shame, and he made up his mind: Didn't he hear the rooster crow just now? Even if the chickens sometimes crow at one or two o'clock at night, it is not far from dawn anyway. If there is a cockcrow, there must be a village, maybe Beixin'an? There was a camel breeder there, so he had to go quickly. If he could arrive at dawn and sell the camels, he could buy a car as soon as he entered the city. During the period of war and chaos, cars must have been cheaper; he only thought about buying cars, as if selling camels was an easy thing.

Thinking of the relationship between camels and rickshaws, his spirits became stronger, and there seemed to be nothing uncomfortable about him. If he thought that he could buy a hundred acres of land with these three camels, or exchange them for a few pearls, he would not be so happy. He stood up quickly, picked up the camel and left. He didn't know what the market for camels was now. He only heard that in the old days, when there were no trains, a camel was worth a fortune[2]

, because camels are stronger and eat less than mules and horses. He doesn't hope to get three big treasures, he just hopes to exchange them for a hundred and eighty yuan, just enough to buy a car. As he walked, the sky became brighter; yes, the light was in front, and he was indeed walking eastward. Even if he takes the wrong road, the direction is not bad; the mountains are in the west and the city is in the east, and he knows this. From uniform darkness everywhere, shades can gradually be distinguished. Although the colors cannot yet be distinguished, the trees in the fields and far away have taken shape in the general darkness. The stars were getting thinner, and the sky was covered with a layer of cloud-like and mist-like gray air. It was dim, but much higher than before. Xiangzi seemed to dare to raise his head. He also began to smell the grass on the roadside and heard a few birds chirping; because he saw vague objects, his ears, eyes, mouth and nose seemed to have resumed their normal functions. He could also see everything about himself, even though it was so tattered and messy, but he could believe that he was still alive; it was like waking up from a nightmare and feeling how lovely life was. After looking at himself, he looked back at the camel - just as ugly as he was, and just as cute. It is the time when animals shed their hair, and the gray-red skin of the camel has been exposed, with only some scattered, powerless long hair hanging here and there, which can be taken off at any time, like some huge beggars among beasts. The most pitiable thing is the long, hairless neck, so long, so bald, crooked, and stupid, stretching out far away, like a frustrated thin dragon. But Xiangzi never disliked them. No matter how disgraceful they were, they were still living things. He admits that he is the luckiest person in the world. God gave him three living treasures that are enough to exchange for a foreign car; this does not happen every day. He couldn't help but laugh.

There is some red in the gray sky, and the ground and distant trees are obviously darker; the red gradually blends with the gray, becoming gray-purple in some places, particularly red in some places, and most of the sky is grape gray. After staying for a while, bright golden yellow showed through the red, and various colors showed some light; suddenly, everything became very clear. Then, the morning glow in the east turned into deep red, and the sky above turned blue. The red clouds broke apart, and golden light shot out one after another. The horizontal ones were clouds and the straight ones were light, weaving into a spider web of great brilliance in the southeast corner of the sky: the green fields, trees, and weeds all changed from dark green to luminous emerald. The trunk of the old pine tree was dyed with golden red, the wings of the flying birds flashed with golden light, and everything brought a smile. Xiangzi wanted to shout a few times at the red light. Since he was pulled away by the soldiers, he seemed to have never seen the sun. He was always cursing in his heart, his head was always lowered, forgetting that there was still the sun, the moon, and God. Now, he was walking freely, and the sun became brighter and brighter as he walked. The sun gave a little golden light to the dewdrops on the grass blades, and also illuminated Xiangzi's eyebrows and hair, and warmed his heart. He forgot all hardships, all dangers, and all pains; no matter how dirty and dirty his body was, the light and heat of the sun did not exclude him. He lived in a universe with light and heat; he was happy, and he wanted to cheer!

Looking at the rags on his body and the three hairless camels behind him, he smiled. He thought, how strange it was that four such dishonorable men and animals could escape danger and walk towards the sun again! There is no need to think about who is right, everything is God's will, he thought. He felt relieved and walked slowly. As long as God protected him, he had nothing to fear. Where have you been? I don’t want to ask, although there are already men and women working in the fields. Let's go, even if he can't sell camels for a while, it doesn't seem to matter; he will go to the city first. He is eager to see the city again. Although there are no parents or relatives there and no property, it is his home after all, and the whole city is his home. Once he gets there, he will have something to do. There is a village in the distance, not a small village. The willow trees outside the village are like a row of tall and green guards. Looking down at the short houses, some smoke is floating on the houses. I heard the barking of village dogs in the distance, which was very pleasant. He kept running towards the village, not wanting to encounter anything funny, as if it was just to show that he was not afraid of anything, he was a good person, and of course he was not afraid of the good people in the village; now everyone is under the bright and peaceful sunshine. If possible, he would like some water to drink; even if he couldn't get water, it didn't matter; since he didn't die in the mountains, what was the point of being thirsty for a while?

The village dog barked at him, but he didn't pay much attention; the women and children looked at him, which made him feel uncomfortable. He must be a very strange camel puller, he thought: Otherwise, why are everyone staring at him blankly? He felt very embarrassed: the soldiers didn't treat him as a human being, and now when he came to the village, everyone looked at him like a monster! He didn't know what to do. His stature and strength have always made him proud, but in the past few days, he has suffered a lot of grievances and hardships for no reason. He looked over from the roof of a house and saw the bright sun again, but the sun didn't seem as cute as before!

On the only road in the village, pig urine, horse urine and sewage merged to form several smelly small lakes. In the north of Daoer, there was a relatively wealthy house with a tile-roofed house behind it. The gate was only blocked by a wooden fence, but there was no wooden door or gatehouse. Xiangzi's heart moved: A tile-roofed house means a rich man; a wooden gate without a gatehouse means a camel owner! Well, let him rest here for a while, in case there is a good opportunity to send the camel out!

"Se! Se! Se!" Xiangzi asked the camels to kneel down. Regarding the slogan for mobilizing the camels, he only knew that "Se..." meant kneeling down. He applied it very proudly and made a point of letting the villagers understand that he was not an amateur. The camels really knelt down, and he himself sat generously under a small willow tree. Everyone looked at him, and he looked at everyone; he knew that only in this way could the suspicion of the villagers be reduced.

After sitting for a while, an old man came out of the courtyard. His blue cloth coat was open and his face was bright. At a glance, he knew that he was a rich man from the countryside. Xiangzi made up his mind: "Old man, is the water ready? Have a drink!"

"Ah!" The old man rubbed the mud roll on his chest, looked at Xiangzi, and looked at the three camels carefully. "There is water! Where did it come from?"

"West!" Xiangzi did not dare to say the name of the place because he was not allowed to know.

"Are there soldiers in the west?" The old man stared at Xiangzi's military trousers.

"The soldiers wrapped him up and just escaped."

"Ah! There's no danger in camels going out of the west exit, right?"

"The soldiers are in the mountains and the road is peaceful."

"Yeah!" The old man nodded slowly. "Wait a minute, I'll get you some water."

Xiangzi followed in. When he arrived at the courtyard, he saw four camels. "Old man, can you keep three of my horses and join us together?"

"Humph! A handful? If we go back thirty years, I had three! Times have changed, who can still afford to feed the camels!" The old man stood still and looked at the four animals blankly. After staying for a long time: "A few days ago, I wanted to team up with the neighbors and take them outside the mouth to let them bloom.[3]

. There is a war in the east and a war in the west. Who dares to leave? Let's do Lasha at home, look at it and make you anxious, look at it and make you anxious, look at these flies! It's going to get really hot tomorrow, and mosquitoes will be added to the mix, and it'll be hard to see the good animals suffering. Alas! "The old man nodded repeatedly, seemingly filled with infinite emotions and complaints.

"Old man, leave three of my horses and put them together outside the mouth to let green. The animals that are jumping happily here will be killed by flies and mosquitoes all summer!" Xiangzi almost begged.

"But who has the money to buy them? This is no longer the time to raise camels!" "Keep them as much as you can; I'll sell them so I can make a living in the city!"

The old man looked at Xiangzi carefully and felt that he was definitely not a gangster. Then he looked back at the animals outside the door, and he seemed to really like the three camels. He knew that there would be no benefit in buying them, but book lovers wanted to buy them when they saw them, and horse breeders were reluctant to part with them after seeing them. The same goes for those who have owned three camels. Besides, Xiangzi said it can be sold at a low price; when a knowledgeable person gets a bargain, it is easy to forget whether there is any benefit in buying something.

"Young man, if I were rich, I would really want to stay!" The old man told the truth.

"Just stay and we'll see what happens!" Xiangzi was so sincere that the old man felt a little embarrassed.

"Seriously, young man, going back thirty years, this is worth three treasures; now, with the war and chaos, I - you should go somewhere else and shout!" "You will be given as much as you want!" Xiangzi couldn't think of anything else to say. He understood that the old man's words were true, but he was unwilling to sell camels all over the world - if they couldn't sell them, there might be something wrong with them.

"Look, look, it's hard to say twenty or thirty yuan, but it's really hard to get it out; these days, there's nothing you can do!"

Xiangzi felt a little cold in his heart, twenty or thirty yuan? We are still far away from buying a car! However, first of all, he wanted to get it done as soon as possible, and secondly, he didn't believe that he would meet another buyer by such a coincidence. "Old man, I will give you as much as you want!"

"What do you do, young man? It can be seen that you are not in this line of work!"

Xiangzi told the truth.

"Oh, you paid for these animals with your life!" The old man sympathized with Xiangzi and was relieved that they were not stolen. Although it was not far from stealing, there was still a layer of soldiers between them. After the war, nothing can be done according to common sense.

"Let's do it, man, I'll give you thirty-five dollars; I have to say it's not a bargain, I'm a coward; if I could get another dollar, I'd be a coward too! I'm over sixty. Huh, tell me what to say!"

Xiangzi ran out of ideas. When it comes to money, he has never been willing to relax. However, these days in the army, he suddenly heard the old man's sincere and emotional words, and he was embarrassed to argue anymore. Moreover, the thirty-five yuan available in cash seems more reliable than the hoped-for ten thousand yuan, although only thirty-five yuan for one life is indeed less! Just three big live camels, no, no, they are only worth thirty-five dollars! However, what can be done! "The camel is yours, old man! I just want one more thing, find me a little coat and some food!"

"That's okay!"

Xiangzi took a gulp of cold water, then took thirty-five pieces of very bright cash, two stick dough pancakes, and a shabby white coat that covered his chest, and was about to walk into the city!

[1]

Puer, that is, the appearance. Have similar meanings.

[2]

Dabao, a silver ingot weighing fifty taels.

[3]

Let the animals go to eat green grass.

Four

Xiangzi lay in a small shop in Haidian for three days. His body was hot and cold, his mind was dazed, and there were purple blisters on his gums. He just wanted to drink water and not eat anything. After three days of hunger, his anger subsided and his body became as soft as sugar. I'm afraid it was during these three days that people heard about his relationship with the three camels from talking in his sleep or talking nonsense. When he woke up, he was already "Camel Xiangzi".

Ever since he came to the city, he had been "Xiangzi", as if he had no surname at all; now, "Camel" is placed above "Xiangzi", and no one cares about his surname. He doesn't care whether he has a surname or not. However, three animals were exchanged for only a few dollars, and he was given a nickname. He felt that it was not a good deal.

As soon as he could struggle to stand up, he wanted to go out and take a look. He didn't expect that his legs would be so tired. When he walked to the door of the shop, he sat on the ground as soon as he was weak. He sat there in a daze for a long time, with cold sweat on his head. After enduring it for a while, he opened his eyes, his stomach rang for a while, and he felt a little hungry. He stood up very slowly and found a wonton picker. I asked for a bowl of wontons, but he still sat on the floor. I took a sip of the soup and felt nauseous. I held it in my mouth for a long time and reluctantly swallowed it; I didn't want to drink anymore. However, after a while, the hot soup ran like a thread all the way to his abdomen, causing him to burp twice. He knew he had a life again.

With some food in his stomach, he took care of himself. I have lost a lot of weight, and my torn pants are extremely dirty. He was too lazy to move, but he wanted to regain his cleanliness immediately, and he refused to go into the city with such a look on his face. However, you have to spend money to be clean and tidy. It costs money to shave your head, change clothes, and buy shoes and socks. The thirty-five yuan in my hand shouldn't move at all. Even if it doesn't move at all, it's still far from the amount needed to buy a car! However, he pitied himself. Although I was taken away by the soldiers for only a few days, when I think about it now, everything seems like a nightmare. This nightmare made him much older, as if he suddenly gained several years in one breath. Looking at his big hands and feet, it was obviously his own, but it seemed as if he had suddenly found them somewhere. He was very sad. He didn't dare to think about the grievances and dangers in the past. Although he didn't think about them, they still existed, just like when it was cloudy, he knew it was dark even if he didn't look at the sky. He feels that his body is particularly lovely and he should not suffer too much from himself. He stood up, knowing that his body was still very soft, but he couldn't wait to dress up, as if he could instantly become stronger by shaving his head and changing clothes.

After dressing up, I only spent a total of two yuan and twenty cents. A pair of natural-colored coarse cloth trousers and coat that resembles lining costs one yuan, blue cloth shoes cost eight cents, socks made of thread shawl cost one fifty cents, and a straw hat costs twenty-five cents. The old thing he took off was replaced with two packs of matches. Holding two packs of matches, he walked along the avenue to Xizhimen. He had not gone far before he felt weak and tired. But he bit the bullet. He couldn't ride in a car, and he couldn't ride in a car from any aspect: How could a countryman take ten miles and eight miles as a guide, and besides, he was pulling a cart. Not to mention, it is a joke to be caught by such a small illness based on his own stature and strength; unless he falls down and cannot get up again, he will roll on the ground and roll into the city, and he will never give in! If he couldn't walk into the city today, he thought, Xiangzi would be finished. He only trusts his body, no matter what illness he has!

Unsteadily, he let go. Not far from Haidian, Venus appeared in front of his eyes. Holding on to a willow tree, he calmed down for a long time. He was spinning and fussing for a while, but he still refused to sit down. The rotation of heaven and earth slowly calmed down, and his heart seemed to fall into his own heart from a long distance. Wiping the sweat on his head, he took another step. He had already shaved his head and put on new clothes and new shoes. He thought that he was worthy of himself; then, his legs had to fulfill their responsibilities, let's go! Angrily, he walked to the gate. Seeing the hustle and bustle of the people and horses, hearing the complex and harsh sounds, smelling the smell of dryness, and stepping on the soft and dirty dust, Xiangzi wanted to climb down and kiss the gray and smelly ground, the lovely ground, the place where foreign money grows! He has no parents, brothers, or relatives. His only friend is this ancient city. This city gave him everything. Even when he was hungry here, he was more lovely than in the countryside. There was something to see and hear, and there was light and sound everywhere. As long as he worked hard, there was countless money here, and he could eat and wear all kinds of good things. Here, you can get meat soup and preserved water if you beg for food. In the countryside, you can only get stick noodles. When he arrived at the west side of Gaoliang Bridge, he sat on the river bank and shed a few tears!

The sun is setting in the west, and the old willows on the river are leaning crookedly, with a little golden light hanging on their tips. There isn't much water in the river, but there is a lot of green algae growing there, like a greasy green belt, long, narrow, dark green, and emitting a slightly fishy tidal smell. The wheat on the north bank of the river has sprouted awns, is short and dry, and a layer of dust has fallen on the leaves. The green leaves of the lotus pond in Henan float weakly on the water, and small bubbles appear from time to time on the left and right sides of the leaves. On the bridge to the east, people and cars passed by, especially in the setting sun, and they seemed to feel uneasy as dusk approached. These are very interesting and cute in Xiangzi's eyes and ears. Only such a small river can be regarded as a river; such trees, wheat, lotus leaves, and bridges can be regarded as trees, wheat, lotus leaves, and bridges. Because they all belong to Peking.

Sitting there, he was not busy anymore. Everything in front of him was familiar and lovely, and he seemed happy to just sit and die. After resting for a long time, Xiangzi went to Qiaotou and ate a bowl of old tofu: vinegar, soy sauce, pepper oil, minced chives. The hot snow-white tofu was scalded, and it gave off a slightly fragrant smell. After taking a bite, the tofu burned his body; he added two small spoons of chili oil himself. After finishing a bowl, his waistband was soaked with sweat. With half-closed eyes, he handed the bowl out: "One more bowl!"

Standing up, he felt like a human again. The sun was still at its lowest point in the west, and the river water was slightly reddish by the sunset. He was so happy that he wanted to shout out. He touched the smooth scar on his face, touched the money in his bag, and glanced at the sunshine on the turret. He forced himself to forget about his illness and everything else. As if he had some wish, he decided to walk into the city.

The city gate was crowded with all kinds of cars and people. No one dared to move quickly, but everyone wanted to pass quickly. The sound of whips, shouts, curses, horns, bells, and laughter were all buzzed together by the door - like a loudspeaker. It seemed that everyone had a voice, and they all buzzed. Xiangzi thrust his big feet one step east, one step west, and moved his hands left and right, squeezing into the city like a big, thin fish leaping with the waves. He saw Xinjiekou at a glance. The road was so wide and straight. His eyes shone as brightly as the reflection on the roofs to the east. He nodded.

His belongings were still at Xi'anmen Street and the depot, so naturally he wanted to go there. Because he had no family, he always lived in a car factory, although he didn't always drive cars there. Renhe's boss Liu Siye is almost seventy years old; old people are not honest. When he was young, he served as a soldier, set up a casino, bought and sold people, and let the king of hell off the hook. Fourth Master Liu has all the qualifications and abilities required for this kind of business - strength, mentality, means, communication, business name, etc. In the early Qing Dynasty, I fought in groups, robbed good women, and knelt on iron ropes. Kneeling on the iron rope, Liu Si did not frown or say spare his life. The lawsuit taught him to stand up, which is called "font size". After being released from prison, he happened to enter the Republic of China. The patrol force became more and more powerful. Mr. Liu realized that the heroes on the ground had become a thing of the past. Even if Huang Tianba was reincarnated, he would not have much chance. He opened a car factory. Coming from a humble background, he knew how to deal with the poor, when to tighten up and where to loosen up. He had a genius for mobilization. None of the coachmen dared to play tricks on him. He glares and laughs with him, which can make people confused, as if they are in heaven and hell, and have no choice but to listen to his manipulations. So far, he has more than 60 cars, and even the worst ones are 70% to 80% new. He doesn’t keep any broken cars. When it comes to renting a car, his car is bigger than others, but during the third quarter, he can rent it for two days longer than others. The man and the factory had a place to live, and the bachelor who pulled his cart could live there for free - but he had to pay his share in the cart. If he couldn't pay the bills and was tired of him, he would take off his bedclothes and throw the person out the door like a broken kettle. If you have an urgent matter or illness, you only need to tell him, and he will be unequivocal and enthusiastically help in every situation. This is called "Zihao".

Mr. Liu Si is a tiger. He is almost seventy, and his back is not bent. He can still walk ten or twenty miles with his legs. Two big round eyes, a big nose, a square mouth, a pair of big tiger teeth, and a mouth like a tiger. He was almost as tall as Xiangzi, with a shaved head and no beard. He calls himself a tiger, but unfortunately he has no son, only a thirty-seven or eighteen-year-old tiger girl - anyone who knows Fourth Master Liu must also know the tiger girl. She also looks tough, so she scares men. She is good at helping her father, but no one dares to marry her. She is just like a man in everything. She even scolds people with the ease of a man, sometimes with more tricks. Fourth Master Liu fights outside and Huniu fights inside. Father and daughter manage Renhe and the depot like an iron tube. Renhe Factory has become an authority in the world of foreign cars. The methods of the Liu family and their daughters are often mentioned in the mouths of car drivers and car owners, just like the quotations from scholars.

Before buying his own car, Xiangzi drove Renhe Factory's car. He left his savings to Liu Siye for storage. After collecting enough money, he wanted to come over and buy the new car.

"Master Liu, look at my car!" Xiangzi pulled the new car to Renhe Factory. The old man glanced at the car and nodded: "Don't leave!"

"I still have to live here. If I pay more, I can get a monthly subscription before I go to the residential building!" Xiangzi said proudly.

"Okay!" Fourth Master Liu nodded again.

So, Xiangzi found a monthly salary and went to Zhuoshan; when he got out of work, he went to work as a guest, so he lived in Renhechang.

According to other coachmen, it is a rare thing to be able to live in Renhe Factory instead of pulling Liu Siye's cart. Therefore, some people even speculated that Xiangzi must be related to Old Man Liu; some even said that Old Man Liu probably fell in love with Xiangzi and wanted to find a "little man" for Huniu to recruit a son-in-law. Although there is a bit of jealousy in this conjecture, if this is really the case, once Mr. Liu dies in the future, Renhe Factory will definitely belong to Xiangzi. This taught them to only dare to make wild guesses, but not to dare to say anything in front of Xiangzi that would not be listened to. In fact, Old Man Liu had another reason for his preferential treatment of Xiangzi. Xiangzi is a person who can maintain old habits in a new environment. If he becomes a soldier, he will never put on that tiger skin and immediately stop pretending to be stupid and bully others. In the car factory, he was not idle. As soon as he stopped sweating, he would find something to do. He cleans the car, pumps the gas, dries the raincoat, and greases the car... He doesn't need anyone's orders, he does it himself, and he does it happily, as if it's a great entertainment. There were about twenty rickshaw drivers living near the factory. After collecting the carts, everyone was either sitting and chatting, or sleeping with their heads covered. Xiangzi, Xiangzi was the only one whose hands were not idle. When they first came here, everyone thought he was being courteous to Fourth Master Liu and trying to curry favor with others; after a few days, they saw that he had no intention of trying to please others, he was so sincere and natural, and they had nothing to say. Old Man Liu never praised him or looked at him twice; the old man knew it well. He knew that Xiangzi was a good man, and even if he didn't pull his cart, he would still like Xiangzi to be in the factory. With Xiangzi here, let alone the other courtyards and entrances, they are always kept clean. Huniu liked this silly big man more. Xiangzi always listened carefully to what she said and did not argue with her. The other coachmen always spoke sideways because they had suffered so much. She was not afraid of them at all, but she did not want to pay any attention to them. Therefore, all her words were left to Xiangzi. When Xiangzi went to ask for a monthly subscription, the Liu family seemed to have lost a friend. When he came back, even the old man's curses seemed more cheerful and charitable.

Xiangzi took two packs of matches and entered Renhe Factory. It's not dark yet, and the Liu family's father and daughter are having dinner. Seeing him come in, Huniu put down her chopsticks: "Xiangzi! Did you let the wolf pick it up, or did you go to Africa to dig gold mines?" "Huh!" Xiangzi didn't say anything.

Fourth Master Liu's big round eyes wandered around Xiangzi and said nothing. Xiangzi, wearing a new straw hat, sat opposite them.

"If you haven't eaten yet, let's eat together!" Huniu seemed to be entertaining a good friend.

Xiangzi didn't move, and suddenly felt an indescribable affection in his heart. He has always regarded Renhe Factory as his home: when he rents a house on a monthly basis, the owner often changes; when he rents a place to sit, the seats change from time to time; this is the only place where he is always allowed to live, and there are always people chatting with him. Now that he had just escaped with his life, he came back to an acquaintance and allowed him to eat. He almost wondered if they were trying to deceive him, but he almost shed tears.

"I just ate two bowls of old tofu!" He showed a little courtesy.

"What did you do?" Mr. Liu's big round eyes were still staring at Xiangzi. "Where's the car?" "Car?" Xiangzi spat.

"Come here and have a bowl of rice first! The poison won't kill you! What does it matter with two bowls of old tofu?!" Huniu pulled him over, as if an old sister-in-law loves her uncle. Xiangzi didn't go to carry the bowl, but took out the money first: "Fourth Master, give it to me first, thirty yuan." He put some change in his pocket.

Mr. Liu asked with the tip of his eyebrows, "Where did it come from?"

While Xiangzi was eating, he told the story of being dragged away by the soldiers.

"Humph, you stupid boy!" After hearing this, Fourth Master Liu shook his head. "If you bring them to the city and sell them to soup pots, they are worth more than ten yuan a head; in winter, when all the camel hair is available, three of them will cost sixty yuan!"

Xiangzi had already regretted it, and when he heard this, he felt even sadder. However, then I thought about it, it was a bit unethical to sell three live animals to the soup pot to be knifed; he and the camel both escaped, so they both deserved to live. Without saying anything, he calmed down.

The tiger girl pulled the guy away, and Mr. Liu raised his head as if he thought of something. Suddenly he smiled, revealing two tiger teeth that were getting stronger with age: "Idiot, you said you were sick in Haidian? Why didn't you come back all the way from Huangcun Avenue?"

"I came back around Xishan Mountain. I was afraid that I would be caught up by others on the main road. What if the people in the village wanted to take it too seriously and treat me as a deserter!"

Fourth Master Liu smiled and rolled his eyes inwardly. He was afraid that Xiangzi's words were evil. If the thirty yuan was stolen, he would not be able to store the stolen goods on behalf of others. When he was young, he had done all kinds of illegal things; now, he considered himself to be a reformer, so he had to be careful, and he knew how to be careful. There was only such a gap in Xiangzi's narrative, but Xiangzi explained it without any fuss, and the old man was relieved.

"What should we do?" the old man said, pointing to the money.

"Listen to you!"

"Buy another car?" The old man showed his fangs again, as if to say: "Buy a car yourself and live in my place for free?!"

"Not enough! You have to buy new ones!" Xiangzi didn't look at Mr. Liu's teeth, but only looked at his own heart.

"Lend it to you? One cent for profit, and two and a half for others!"

Xiangzi shook his head.

"You might as well give me a profit if you follow the car shop's instructions!"

"I don't want to print the money either," Xiangzi said in a daze, "I'll save it slowly, and when I've counted enough, I'll buy the spot with cash!"

The old man looked at Xiangzi, as if he were reading some strange word, "Damn it," but he couldn't get angry. After a while, he picked up the money and said, "Thirty? Don't be careless!"

"That's right!" Xiangzi stood up and said, "Go to bed. I'll give you a pack of matches!" He placed a pack of matches on the table, then paused for a moment: "Don't tell others about the camel!"

five

It is true that Old Man Liu did not promote Xiangzi, but the story of the camel quickly spread from Haidian to the city. In the past, although everyone could not find anything wrong with Xiangzi, due to his stubbornness, they thought he was not very gregarious and awkward. Since "Camel Xiangzi" spread, although Xiangzi is still dull and unfriendly, everyone has looked at him differently. Some people said that he lost a gold watch, some said that he got three hundred yuan in vain. The one who believed that he knew the most accurately nodded and said that he brought back thirty camels from the Western Mountains! Although the opinions are different, the conclusion is the same - Xiangzi made evil fortune! As for people who make evil money, no matter how "not a good friend" this guy is, everyone should respect him as usual. Since it is so difficult to make money by working hard, everyone hopes to make some illicit wealth. Since evil fortune is so rare, those with some luck must be different and have great fortune and fortune. Therefore, Xiangzi's silence and aloofness turned into a noble man who spoke late. He should be like this, and they should be chasing him to win over them. "Come on, Xiangzi! Tell me, tell me how you got rich?" Xiangzi heard this every day. He said nothing. It wasn't until he got desperate and his scar turned a little red that he said, "Fa Cai, where the hell is my car?"

Yes, it's true. Where did his car go? Everyone started thinking. But worrying about others is worse than enjoying them, so everyone forgot about Xiangzi's car and thought about his good luck. After a while, everyone saw that Xiangzi was still pulling carts and had not changed his profession or bought a house or land, so they became a little indifferent to him. When mentioning Xiangzi Xiangzi, they no longer asked why he was called "Camel", as if he should be called that at all.

Xiangzi himself did not forget this matter lightly. He wished he could buy a new car right away, and the more anxious he became, the more he thought about the original one. He worked hard all day long, but as he worked, he remembered what happened. When he thought about it, he felt blocked in his heart. He couldn't help but think, what if he wanted to be strong? The world was not fair just because he wanted to be strong, so why should he take away his car for nothing? Even if we get another one right away, how can we know that we won’t encounter that kind of thing again? The past seemed to him like a nightmare, and he could hardly hope for the future. Sometimes he almost felt a little envious when he saw other people drinking, eating, smoking and running around in the local brothels. Since it's useless to be strong, why not be happy in front of you? They are right. Even if he doesn't go to the local house first, he should drink two cups of wine and feel at ease. Cigarettes and alcohol seem to have a special attraction for him now. He feels that these two things are not expensive, but they will be enough to comfort him, allowing him to still move forward and forget the pain of the past.

However, he still didn't dare to touch them. He must be able to save one more if he can, otherwise he cannot buy his own car early. Even if he buys it today and loses it tomorrow, he still has to buy it. This is his wish, his hope, even his religion. Without pulling his own car, his life seemed to be in vain. He never thought of becoming an official, getting rich, or buying property. His ability is only to pull a car, and his most reliable hope is to buy a car; he cannot be worthy of himself unless he buys a car. He thought about it all day long and calculated his money; if he forgot about it, he would forget about himself and feel that he was just a runaway beast without any development or human taste. No matter how good the car is, as long as it is rented, he will never pull it with ease, as if he is carrying a stone on his back. Even if he rents a car, he will not be lazy. He will always clean it up and never bump into it; but this is just some caution, not a kind of happiness. Yes, packing your car is like counting your money, which is true happiness. He still had to stop eating, smoking, and drinking, and it was hard to even drink tea after wrapping it. In the teahouse, a respectable coachman like him, after running for a while, makes a point of drinking a bag of tea leaves worth ten cents, plus two bags of sugar, in order to replenish the energy and dissipate the fire. When he ran and sweat dripped down his "ears and lips" and his chest felt a little hot, he really wanted to do this; this was definitely not a habit or style, but a real need to suppress it with these two bowls of tea. Just thinking about it, he still drank the powder that was a penny a packet. Sometimes he really wanted to scold himself, why he was suffering like this; but, as a coachman, if he wanted to have two dollars left in the month, how could he not do this? He was cruel. Let’s talk about it after buying the car, let’s talk about it after buying the car! Having a car is worth everything!

He is so stubborn about spending money, and he is even less relaxed about making money. Without a monthly subscription, he would work all day long, leaving early and coming back late. He would not take the car away until he had paid a certain amount of money, regardless of time or legs; sometimes he would work hard all day and all night. In the past, he would not steal other people's business, especially the old, weak and disabled soldiers. He used his body and his car to compete with them for seats, but could he still have their share? Now, he doesn't care much about this. He only sees money, and one more is one more. No matter the bitterness or sweetness of the transaction, no matter who he is competing for business with; he only cares about the business and nothing else, like a hungry wild beast. Pulling up and running, he felt a little better, feeling that only by being stubborn could he have any hope of buying a car. The reputation of Camel Xiangzi who came and went is far less than that of Xiangzi alone. Many times, he would grab a deal and run away, followed by a lot of curses. He didn't reply, lowered his head and ran away, saying in his heart: "If I hadn't bought a car, I would never be so shameless!" He seemed to beg everyone's forgiveness with these words, but he refused to say it to everyone so directly. At the bus stop or in a teahouse, he saw people staring at him. He wanted to explain to everyone, but when he saw how indifferent they were, and because he did not drink, gamble, play chess, or chat with them on weekdays, he could only keep his words in his stomach and had no way of speaking out. Embarrassment gradually turned to shame, and his anger grew; they glared at him, and he glared at them. Thinking of how much respect everyone had for him when he escaped from the mountain, he felt even more sad that he was being looked down upon like this. Holding a pot of tea alone, if he was in a teahouse, or counting the coins he had just earned, if he was at the entrance of a car, he would use all his strength to suppress his anger. He didn't want to fight, although he wasn't afraid of one. We are not afraid of fighting, but we should think about fighting Xiangzi. None of them is his opponent, and it is not very bright for us to fight one of them. Barely suppressing his anger, he couldn't think of any other way. He could only endure it for a while and wait until he bought the car. With his own car, he doesn't have to worry about renting a car every day. He can naturally be generous and no longer offend others by robbing business. With this thought in mind, he glanced at everyone as if to say: Let's wait and see!

As for him personally, he shouldn't be so desperate. After escaping back to the city, he didn't wait for his illness to recover before he pulled up the car. Although he didn't give in at all, he often felt tired. He didn't dare to rest when he was tired. He always thought that running a few more times and sweating would make him feel less tired. Regarding food, he didn't dare to pout, but he also didn't dare to eat more good things. He saw that he had lost a lot of weight, but his body was still as tall and his muscles and bones were still as strong. He was relieved. He always thinks that because he is taller than others, he must be able to suffer more than others. It seems that he has never thought that because he is larger and suffers more, he should need more nourishment. Lady Tiger has told him several times: "If you do this, it's your own fault if you vomit blood!"

He understood very well that this was a good thing, but because things were not going as he wanted and his body was not well maintained, he was a little angry. He nodded slightly and said, "If I didn't run like this, how long would it take for me to buy a car?"

If someone else was so sharp-eyed, Huniu would have to scold him for at least half a day; to Xiangzi, she was extremely polite and protective. She just curled her lips: "You have to stop here to buy a car. You are made of iron! You should have a good three days of rest!" Seeing that Xiangzi couldn't listen to this: "Okay, you have your old ideas, don't blame me if you die!"

Mr. Liu also looked down on Xiangzi a little: Xiangzi's desperate efforts, leaving early and returning late, were of course not good for his car. Although there is no time limit for renting a car for a whole day, you can take it out and pick it up whenever you like. If everyone is as stubborn as Xiangzi, a car will break down at least half a year early. No matter how strong it is, it can't stand up to a nail! Besides, Xiangzi only cares about running to his death and doesn't always have time to help clean the car, which is another loss. The old man felt a little unhappy. He didn't say anything. It was a general rule to work all day with no time limit. Helping to pack the car was a friendship, not an obligation. With his character, he couldn't express himself to Xiangzi. He could only show a look of dissatisfaction from the corners of his eyes, and closed his mouth tightly. Sometimes he wanted to kick Xiangzi out; looking at his daughter, he didn't dare to do this. He had no intention of treating Xiangzi as a potential son-in-law, but since his daughter liked this stupid boy, it was not easy for him to be meddlesome. He only has one girl, and seeing that there is no hope of getting married, he can no longer drive her away as his friend. To be honest, Huniu was so useful that he really didn't want her to get married. He felt that this selfishness was a bit strange and could not be tolerated by her, so he was somewhat afraid of her. The old man was fearless all his life, but in his old age he became afraid of his own daughter. He came up with some reasoning out of embarrassment: as long as he is afraid of individuals, it is proof that he is not completely lawless. With this fact, perhaps he would not suffer bad retribution when he was about to die. Well, he admitted that he should be afraid of his daughter, so he refused to drive Xiangzi away. This certainly does not mean that he can let his daughter do whatever he wants and even marry Xiangzi. no. He could see that his daughter might not have that intention, but Xiangzi did not dare to flatter her.

Then, he just needs to be careful, and he won't be unhappy if he recruits his daughter first. Xiangzi didn't pay attention to the old man's demeanor. He didn't pay attention to these idle dishes. If he is willing to leave Renhe Factory, it is definitely not for gambling, but because he hopes to get a monthly subscription. He was already a little tired of showing up. Firstly, he was looked down upon by everyone because he was snatching deals, and secondly, because his daily income was not fixed. It would be more today, less tomorrow, and he couldn't decide how long it would take to get enough money to buy a car. He is willing to have an accurate idea in his heart, even if there is only a small amount left, as long as he can rely on the accurate number of deaths every month, he will feel hopeful and relieved. He is a person who is willing to be a carrot and a pit.

He got a monthly subscription. Humph, it’s as unpleasant as breaking up the seats! This time it was at Yang's house. Mr. Yang is from Shanghai, Mrs. Yang is from Tianjin, and Mrs. Yang is from Suzhou. One gentleman and two wives gave birth to an unknown number of children with their southern accents. On the first day of work, Xiangzi almost fainted. Early in the morning, the eldest wife took the car to the market to buy groceries. When I came back, I sent the young masters and ladies to school separately. Some were in junior high school, some were in elementary school, and some were in kindergarten. The schools were different, the ages were different, and the looks were different, but they were all equally annoying, especially when sitting in the car. The most honest ones had more hands than monkeys. Send the children away and Mr. Yang goes to the Yamen. Send her to the Yamen, come back quickly, and take the second wife to Dong'an market or visit relatives and friends. Come back and take the students home for lunch. After eating, send them away. After sending the students back, Xiangzi thought it was time to eat, but the eldest lady spoke in a Tianjin accent and asked him to fetch water. Someone brings sweet water to Yang's house, and the bitter water for washing clothes is left to the coachman to pick up. This job was outside of the conditions. In order to deal with the matter, Xiangzi did not dare to argue and filled the tank without saying a word. He put down the bucket and was about to carry the rice bowl when the second wife asked him to buy something for her. The eldest wife and the second wife had always been at odds with each other, but in terms of housekeeping, they had the same political views. One of them was not allowing the servants to take a break, and the other was that they refused to watch the servants eat. Xiangzi didn't know this, so he just thought it was because the house happened to be so busy the day before, so he didn't say anything and bought a few sesame cakes with his own money. He loves money as much as his life, but in order to maintain his career, he has to be ruthless.

After returning from shopping, the eldest lady asked him to clean the yard. The husband, wife, and second wife of Yang Zhai all dress up beautifully when they go out, but the whole house and courtyard look like a big garbage dump. Xiangzi felt sick looking at the yard, so he just went to clean it and forgot that the coachman was not also responsible for the chores. The yard was clean and tidy, so the second wife asked him to clean the house as well. Xiangzi didn't object. What surprised him was how the two ladies could be so dirty in the house despite their appearance and beauty! After tidying up the house, the second wife handed over the little mud ghost who had just turned one year old to him. There was nothing he could do. He is good at all things that involve working hard, but he has never held a child. He held the young master with both hands. Don't use force, for fear of slipping, but use force, and he would be afraid of injuring his muscles and bones. He was sweating. He wanted to give this treasure to Zhang Ma, a big-footed woman from Jiangbei. When I found her, I was scolded by her when I met her. The servants in the Yang House have always been replaced every three to five days. The husband and wife always thought that the servants were just domestic slaves who had to kill the poor to be worthy of the wages. There is only this Zhang Ma, who has been with them for five or six years. The only reason is that she will scold her whenever she dares to speak out, no matter whether it is the husband or the wife, if she is annoyed, she will be beaten. With the ferocity of Mr. Yang's Hai-style curses, the majesty of Mrs. Yang's Tianjin accent, and the fluentness of the second wife's Suzhou tune, they had always been invincible; but when they encountered Zhang Ma's fierceness, they began to feel a sense of reciprocity, a hero meeting a hero, so they appreciated her quite a bit and took her into their own army.

Xiangzi was born in the northern countryside, and he was most taboo about swearing in the streets. But he didn't dare to hit Zhang Ma, because a good man doesn't fight with women, and he doesn't want to fight back. He just glared at her. Zhang Ma stopped speaking, as if she sensed some danger. At this time, the eldest lady called Xiangzi to pick up the student. He quickly sent the clay doll back to the second wife. The second wife thought he was deliberately looking down on her, so she cursed him out loud. The eldest wife originally didn't want Xiangzi to carry the child for the second wife, but when she heard the second wife scolding him, she also scolded him in a smooth voice, and it was him who was scolding him; Xiangzi became a shield for being scolded. He hurriedly pulled up the car and walked out, seeming to have forgotten even his anger, because he had never seen anything like this before, and when he suddenly encountered it, he felt a little dizzy.

The children were brought back in batches, and the courtyard was even busier than the market. The scoldings of three women and the cries of a group of children were as chaotic as Dashilar during a performance, and the chaos was inexplicable. Fortunately, he still had to pick up Mr. Yang, so he hurriedly ran out again. The people shouting and yelling on the street seemed to be more bearable than the chaos in the house.

It wasn't until twelve o'clock that Xiangzi found time to sigh. Not only did he feel tired on his body, but there was also a constant buzzing in his head; everyone in the Yang family, young and old, had indeed fallen asleep, but there still seemed to be shouts and curses from the gentlemen and ladies in his ears, like three different phonographs spinning in his mind, making him panic. He didn't want to think about anything anymore, he wanted to sleep. As soon as he entered his small room, his heart felt cold and he was no longer sleepy. A concierge with two doors separated by a wooden board. Zhang Ma lives on one side and he lives on the other. There were no lights in the house. There was a small window about two feet wide on the wall facing the street, which happened to be under a street lamp, giving the house a little light. The room was damp and smelly. The soil on the floor was as thick as a copper plate. There were planks placed against the wall and nothing else. He touched the bed board and knew that if he put his head down, he would have to put his feet on the wall, and if he put his feet flat, he would have to sit up halfway. He won't sleep like a gold ingot. After thinking for a long time, he pulled the plank diagonally so that the two ends faced the rhinoceros horns, so he could lay his head flat and let his legs hang down for the rest of the night.

He brought the bedding in from the doorway, laid it out carelessly, and lay down. He was not used to having his legs hanging in the air, so he couldn't sleep. I closed my eyes and comforted myself: Go to sleep, I have to get up early tomorrow! You have suffered all kinds of sins, why can't you just tolerate this! Regardless of whether he doesn’t eat well or drink well and works too hard, he may often play cards, treat guests, or have dinner[1]

. Why did we come out, Xiangzi? Not for money? As long as you make more money, you will have to endure anything! With this thought, he felt much more comfortable. After smelling the room, it was no longer as smelly as before, and he slowly fell asleep. I vaguely thought there were bed bugs, but I didn't bother to get them.

After two days, Xiangzi's heart felt cold to the core. But on the fourth day, a female guest came, and Zhang Ma was busy setting up the card table. His heart felt as if a spring breeze suddenly came over the frozen lake. The ladies played cards and handed the children over to the servants. Since Zhang Ma had to serve the cigarette and tea towel handle, those little monkeys were naturally under the control of Xiangzi. He hated these monkeys, but he took a sneak peek into the room and saw that the eldest lady was in charge of the boss's money and seemed to be very serious about it. He thought in his heart: Even though this lady is so powerful, she may not be confused. She knows how to get an extra thirty-fifty cents for the servants at this time. He was particularly patient with the monkeys. For the sake of the leader's money, he had to treat these monkey cubs as young masters and young ladies.

The card game was over and his wife asked him to send the guest home. The two female passengers were anxious to leave at the same time, so they had to hire another car. Xiangzi called for a car, and the eldest lady lifted up her robe and dragged her belt with her money all over her body, preparing to pay the guest's fare. The guest gave a few words of humility, and the eldest lady shouted as if she was desperate: "What's wrong with you, old girl! You're here, and you don't have the fare yet! Old girl! Get on board!" Only then did she take out a dime.

Xiangzi could see it clearly. When he handed over the dime, his wife's hand was trembling a little.

After seeing off the guests and helping Zhang's mother pack the card table and other things, Xiangzi glanced at his wife. The wife asked Zhang’s mother to get some boiling water. When Zhang’s mother left the house, she took out a dime and said, “Here, don’t touch me with your eyesight!”

Xiangzi's face suddenly turned purple, and he straightened his back as if his head was about to hit the roof beam. He grabbed the dime and threw it on his wife's fat face: "Give me four days' wages!" "What about you?" After the wife said this, she looked at Xiangzi again, fell silent, and gave him four days' wages. As soon as he unpacked his clothes and walked out of the street, he heard people yelling at him in the courtyard.

[1]

Dinner, that is, a banquet.

six

On an early autumn night, with a small breeze blowing in the shadows of stars and leaves, Xiangzi raised his head, looked at the distant Milky Way, and sighed. It was such a cool day and his chest was so wide, but he felt as if there wasn't enough air and his chest was very tight. He wanted to sit down and cry. With his own physique, his own forbearance, and his own strength, he would make people treat him like a pig or a dog, and he would not be able to maintain a situation. Not only did he resent the Yang family, but he also vaguely felt a sense of hopelessness, fearing that he would never get any better in his life. Pulling the bedroll, he walked slower and slower, as if he was no longer a Xiangzi who could run ten miles with his legs.

When he reached the street, there were fewer pedestrians, but the street lights were very bright. He felt even more empty and confused, and he didn't know where to go. Where? Naturally, he returned to Renhe Factory. I felt a little sad again. Those who do business and work hard are not afraid of not having business, but they are afraid of having a caregiver[1]

But the business is not concluded, just like a customer coming into a hotel or barber shop, taking a look at it, and then walking out. Xiangzi knew that it was common for him to quit his job, so if he didn't stay here, he would have a place to stay. However, he kept things humbly and humiliated himself just to buy a car, but it still happened in three and a half days. He was just like those old guys who were used to visiting the house, and he felt sad. He almost felt ashamed to enter Renhe Factory again, and made a joke to everyone: "Look, Luotuo Xiangzi dared to show off his love in three and a half days.[2]

Yeah, hum! "

If you don't work for people and factories, where will you go? In order not to think about this matter anymore, he walked straight to Xi'anmen Street. In front of Renhe Factory are three shop rooms, one of which is used as a locker room. Only the coachmen are allowed to come in to pay accounts or negotiate matters. They are not allowed to go back and forth casually, because the east and west rooms are the bedrooms of the Liu family's father and daughter. There is a car door next to the west room, two green-painted doors, with a thick iron bar bent above them, and a very bright electric lamp without a cover hanging on it. Under the lamp, there are four words painted in gold on an iron plate - "Renhe Car Factory". Coachmen use this door when leaving and collecting their carriages and coming and going at any time. The dark green paint on the door and the gold characters on it were all illuminated by the bright white electric lamp. The cars that came in and out were all beautiful cars, all with black and yellow paint, all shiny and shiny, with snow-white cushion covers. Even the coachmen felt a little proud, as if they all regarded themselves as nobles among coachmen. Enter through the gate and turn to the west of the front, you will find a large square yard with an old Sophora japonica tree in the middle. The east and west rooms are all open-faced and are used for storing cars; the south room and several small cabins in the small courtyard behind the south room are all the coachman's quarters.

It was about eleven o'clock when Xiangzi saw the extremely bright and strangely lonely lamp in Renhe Factory. There were no lights in the closet and the east room, but the west room was still on. He knew that Tiger Girl was not asleep yet. He wanted to sneak in quietly and not let the tiger girl see him; just because she thought highly of him, he didn't want her to be the first to see his failure.

As soon as he pulled the car under her window, Huniu came out of the car door:

"Hey, Xiangzi? How-" She was about to ask, but when she saw Xiangzi's dejected look, he pulled the bedroll in the car and swallowed her words.

No matter what he was afraid of, the shame and frustration in Xiangzi's heart condensed into a ball, and he immediately stood still and stayed there. Speechless, he looked at the tiger girl stupidly. She was also strange today. I don't know whether it was because of the electric light or the powder on her face. Her face was much whiter than usual. The whiter face concealed a lot of her fierceness. There is indeed some rouge on her lips, so Hu Niu also brings out some charm. When Xiangzi saw this, he felt very strange and became even more flustered. Because he had never treated her as a woman, but when he suddenly saw these red lips, he suddenly felt a little embarrassed. She wore a light green silk jacket on the upper body, and a pair of green crepe pants with fat legs on the lower body. The green coat shimmered softly and slightly sadly under the electric light. Because it was short, a little bit of the white trouser waistband was exposed, making the green color more obvious and sober. The fat black pants underneath were slightly blown by the breeze, like some sinister air, trying to get rid of the bright light and become one with the dark night. Xiangzi didn't dare to look any further, and lowered his head blankly. There was still a small green coat with light in his heart. With the financial resources of the Liu family, she could wear silk and satin every day, but when dealing with the coachmen all day long, she always wore plain clothes and trousers. Even if there were some colors, they would not be eye-catching on the cloth. Xiangzi seemed to see something very new, familiar yet new, so he felt a little confused.

He was worried at first, but after encountering this new and strange living thing under the strong light, he had no idea. He refused to move, but he hoped that the tiger girl would quickly enter the house, or order him to do something. He simply couldn't stand this kind of torture, a kind of torture that felt like nothing and was very sad.

"Hi!" She took a step forward and said in a low voice: "Don't be stunned! Go, put the car down, and come back quickly. I have something to tell you. See you at the house."

He was used to doing things for her, so he had no choice but to obey. But today she was different from the past, and he wanted to think about it. I stood there thinking about it, and felt so stiff and panicked. He had no idea and pulled the car in. Look at the south room, there is no light, everyone is probably asleep; or there are people who have confiscated cars. After putting the car away, he returned to her door. Suddenly, his heart beat fast.

"Come in, I have something to tell you!" She stuck her head out and said with a half smile and half annoyance. He walked in slowly.

There are a few unripe white pears on the table, the skin is still green. A wine flask and three white porcelain wine cups. A large plate with half a sauced chicken and some smoked liver, sauced tripe and other delicacies.

"Look," Lady Tiger pointed to a chair for him, watched him sit down, and then said, "Look, I'm having a treat today, and you should have some too!" As she said that, she poured him a glass of wine. The spiciness of Baigan wine, mixed with the flavor of smoked meat, is particularly thick and heavy. "Drink and eat this chicken. I've already eaten it, no need to let it go! I just made a prediction with the dominoes, so I know you'll come back. Will it work?"

"I don't drink!" Xiangzi looked at the wine cup in trance.

"Get out of here if you don't want to drink. What's wrong with being so kind and ungrateful? You stupid camel! I can't kill you! I can even drink four taels. If you don't believe it, look at it!" She picked up the wine cup, drank more than half of it, closed her eyes, and let out a sigh. Holding up the cup: "You drink! Or I'll grab your ears and drink it from you!"

Xiangzi was full of resentment and had no place to vent it. When faced with such teasing, he really wanted to stare at her. But he knew that Tiger Girl had always been nice to him, and she was so straightforward with everyone, so he shouldn't offend her. Since I don't want to offend her, on second thought I might as well complain to her about my grievances. I have never been very talkative, but today it seems that I have thousands of words that I am holding back in my heart, and I would not be happy if I had to talk about them. Thinking about it this way, he felt that the tiger girl was not teasing him, but frankly loved and protected him. He took the wine cup and drank it dry. A spicy breath went down slowly, accurately, and forcefully. He stretched his neck, straightened his chest, and burped two inconvenient burps.

Hu Niu laughed. He managed to keep the drink down, and when he heard the laughter, he quickly looked towards the east side.

"No one," she stopped laughing, but still had a smile on her face. "The old man went to celebrate my aunt's birthday, so there will be a delay of two or three days. My aunt lives in Nanyuan." As he said this, he filled the cup again.

Hearing this, his mind took a turn, and he felt that something seemed wrong somewhere. At the same time, he was reluctant to go out; her face was so close to his, her clothes were so clean and smooth, and her lips were so red, which all made him feel a new kind of excitement. She was still so old and ugly, but she had a little more vitality than usual, as if she suddenly became another person, still her, but with something extra. He didn't dare to think about this new thing in detail, and he didn't dare to accept it casually, but he couldn't bear to refuse it. He blushed. As if to strengthen his courage, he took another sip of wine. He wanted to complain to her just now, but he forgot about it now. Blushing, he couldn't help but look at her a few more times. The more he looked, the more confused he became. She showed more and more something that he didn't understand, and more and more hot power was transmitted to her. Gradually, she became an abstract thing. He warned himself that he needed to be careful; but he also had to be bold. He drank three cups of wine in a row and forgot what it meant to be careful. Looking at her vaguely, he felt very happy and bold for some reason; he was extremely brave and wanted to seize a new experience and happiness immediately. Normally, he was a little afraid of her; now, there was nothing scary about her. Instead, he became majestic and powerful, as if he could hold her in his hands like a cat. The lights went out in the house. It was dark. From time to time, one or two stars pierce the Milky Way, or streak into the darkness, with red or white light tails, light or stiff, falling straight or sweeping, sometimes moving and trembling, giving the sky some turbulence of light and heat, and giving the darkness some flickering explosions. Sometimes one or two stars, sometimes several stars, fly down at the same time, making the silent autumn sky tremble slightly and making thousands of stars temporarily confused. Sometimes a single giant star pierces the corner of the sky, its tail of light is extremely long, radiating star flowers; red and gradually yellowing; in the final advance, it suddenly lights up the corner of the sky white like a craziness, as if it has pierced through ten thousand layers of darkness, letting in and staying some milky white light. After the remaining light dissipated, the darkness seemed to shake a few times, then closed up again, and the quiet and lazy stars returned to their original positions, smiling in the autumn wind. There are some Qiuying flying on the ground who are looking for lovers, and they are also playing star-like games.

The next day, Xiangzi got up very early, picked up the car and went out. There was a little pain in his head and throat. This was because it was the first time he drank alcohol, but he didn't pay attention to it. Sitting at the entrance of a small alley, the morning breeze blew his head. He knew that this headache would soon pass. But there was something else on his mind that made him depressed and panicked, and there was no way to excuse it for the moment. What happened last night made him confused, ashamed, sad, and felt a little dangerous.

He didn't understand what happened to the tiger girl. She was no longer a virgin, Xiangzi didn't know until what time it was. He has always respected her, and has never heard of any irregularities in her. Although she is very casual and straightforward with everyone, no one talks about her behind their back. Even if there are some bad words about her among the coachmen, they only say that she is great and nothing else. So, why was there the scene last night?

This was obviously confusing, and Xiangzi also doubted what happened last night. She knew that he was not in the car factory, how could she wait for him wholeheartedly? If it could be any one... Xiangzi lowered his head. He comes from the countryside, and although he has never thought about getting married, he has a plan in mind: if he has his own car, his life becomes more comfortable, and he is willing to get married, he will definitely go to the countryside to marry a young, strong girl who can endure hardships and can do laundry and work. Among the young men of his age, no one would sneak into the "White House"[3] even if someone is supervising them.

? Xiangzi always refused to be easy-going. Firstly, he thought he was a strong man and could not spend money on women. Secondly, he saw with his own eyes those fools who spent money unnecessarily - some were only eighteen or nineteen years old - in the toilet with their heads against the wall and still unable to urinate. Finally, he must behave himself in order to be worthy of his future wife, because once he wants to marry, he must marry a pure and innocent girl, so he must behave like that. But now, now... Thinking of Hu Niu, if you look at her as a friend, she is really good; if you look at her as a woman, she is ugly, old, powerful, and shameless! Even when he thought about the soldiers who snatched his car and almost killed him, he was not as hateful and repulsive as when he thought about her! She had destroyed all the coolness he had brought from the country, and now he was a pussy-stealer!

Besides, what if this matter gets louder and Liu Si finds out? Does Liu Si know that his daughter is a loser? If he didn't know, wouldn't Xiangzi bear the blame alone? If they had known about it for a long time and were unwilling to control their daughter, then who are their father and daughter? If he mixes with such people, what is he himself? Even if both father and daughter were willing, he couldn't have her; no matter whether Old Man Liu had sixty cars, six hundred cars, or six thousand cars! He had to leave Renhe and the factory immediately and make a clean break with them. Xiangzi has Xiangzi's ability. He can buy a car and marry a wife based on his own ability. This is how he is upright! Thinking of this, he raised his head and felt that he was a good man. He had nothing to fear and nothing to worry about. As long as he worked hard, he would definitely succeed.

I offered my seat twice, but couldn't get it. That awkwardness suddenly returned. I don't want to think about it anymore, but my heart is filled with panic. This matter seems completely different from other things. Even if there is a solution, it is not easy to forget easily. Not only did there seem to be something stuck to my body, but there also seemed to be a black spot in my heart that could never be washed away. No matter how resentful or disgusted she was, she always seemed to capture his heart. The less he wanted to think about it, the more suddenly she jumped out of his heart. A naked woman, she gave him all the ugliness and beauty all at once, like buying a pile of junk. There were also a few small shiny colored objects among the scraps of metal, which made people unable to bear to refuse. He has never been so close to anyone. Although it is sudden and it is a deception, after all, such a relationship cannot be forgotten casually. If he just wants to put it aside, it will naturally linger in his heart, as if it has taken root. This was not only an experience for him, but also an indescribable disturbance that left him wondering what to do. He had nothing to do with her, himself, the present and the future. He was like a bug caught in a cobweb, and it was too late to struggle.

In a daze, he pulled in a few deals. Even when he was running, he did not forget this matter in his mind. He did not think of it clearly and from beginning to end, but he always thought of a meaning, a taste, or some feelings, all vague but kind. He really wanted to go drinking alone and drink without knowing anyone else. Maybe he would be happy and he could no longer suffer this torture! But he didn't dare to drink. He couldn't ruin himself over this. He thought about buying a car again. But he couldn't concentrate on thinking, there was always something blocking his mind; before he thought about the car, this thing had sneaked out and occupied his heart, like a dark cloud covering the sun, interrupting the light. In the evening, when he was about to collect the car, he felt even sadder. He had to go back to the depot, but he was really afraid of going back. What if I meet her? He pulled the empty cart around the street. Two or three times he was not far from the depot, then turned back and walked elsewhere, like a child who was truant for the first time and did not dare to enter the house. The strange thing is that the more he wants to avoid her, the more he wants to meet her. The darker it gets, the more powerful this thought becomes. A kind of boldness and confusion that he was willing to try even though he knew it was wrong tightly grabbed his heart. When he was a child, he used a pole to poke a hornet's nest like this. He was afraid, but his heart was beating to try it, as if there was some evil force urging him. In a daze, he felt a force that was more powerful than himself. It wanted to roll him into a ball and throw him into a ball of fire; he could not stop his progress.

He circled back to Xi'an Gate again. This time he didn't want to hesitate anymore and wanted to go straight to the court to find her. She is no longer anyone, she is just a woman. His whole body felt warm. As soon as he reached the door, a man in his forties walked under the light. He seemed to recognize this man's appearance and attitude, but he didn't dare to say hello. Almost instinctively, he said: "Car?" The man was stunned for a moment: "Xiangzi?" "Yes," Xiangzi smiled. "Mr. Cao?"

Mr. Cao smiled and nodded. "I said Xiangzi, if you were not at the door, why don't you come to my place? The person I am using now is too lazy. He never cares about cleaning the car, although he can run very quickly[4]

of. Are you coming? "

"Can you come, sir?" Xiangzi seemed to have forgotten how to smile, and kept wiping his face with a small towel. "Sir, when will I start work?"

"What about that?" Mr. Cao thought for a while, "The day after tomorrow."

"Yes, sir!" Xiangzi also thought for a moment: "Sir, shall I take you back?" "No. Didn't I go to Shanghai for a while? After I came back, I no longer lived in my old place. Now I live on Beichang Street; I go out for a walk at night. See you the day after tomorrow." Mr. Cao told Xiangzi the house number, and then added: "I still use my own car."

Xiangzi was so happy that he wanted to fly. All the worries of the past few days were suddenly wiped away, like a white stone road washed by heavy rain. Mr. Cao was his old master. Although they didn't live together for many years, they had a good relationship. Mr. Cao was a very kind man, and his family had a small population, with only a wife and a little boy. He pulled the car and ran straight to Renhe Factory. The lights in Tiger Girl's house are still on. When Xiangzi saw the light on, he was stunned.

After standing there for a long time, he decided to go in and see her, telling her that he had found another monthly subscription, that he would hand over the car for the two days, that he would use his savings, and that he would be done with it from now on - naturally it was not easy to say this clearly, but she would always understand.

He went in and put the car away first, then came back and boldly called Miss Liu. "Come in!"

He opened the door and she was lying on the bed, wearing ordinary clothes and bare feet. Still leaning forward, she said, "How is it? Why did you get the benefit?"

Xiangzi's face was as red as the eggs given away when giving birth. After being stunned for a long time, he said slowly: "I have found a job again and will start work the day after tomorrow. I have my own car..."

She took over the words: "You don't know what to do!" She sat up and pointed at him with a half smile and half annoyance: "Here is your food and your clothes. Why don't you have to go and sweat? The old man can't control me. I can't stay a widow for the rest of my life! The old man really Damn it, I have two bodies, we can get two or three cars, and we can earn 80 cents a day. Isn’t that better than you running around all day long? What’s wrong with me? Except that I’m a little older than you, but I’m not much older!”

"I'm willing to pull the cart!" Xiangzi couldn't find any other excuse.

"You're an authentic Wowotou head! Sit down first, I won't bite you!" After she finished speaking, she smiled, revealing a pair of tiger teeth.

Xiangzi sat down with his veins jumping. "Where's my little money?"

"It's in the old man's hands. If you can't throw it away, don't be afraid. Don't ask for it from him. Do you know his temper? It's enough to buy a car. If you ask for it again, a boy can't lose it to you. If you want it now, it would be weird if he doesn't curse you to death! He treats you well! If you can't throw it away, I'll pay for you both! You country head! Don't let me hurt you!"

Xiangzi said nothing again, lowered his head and dug for a long time, took out two days' rent of the car and put it on the table: "It's for two days." He suddenly thought: "I'll hand over the car today, and I'll take a day off tomorrow."

The tiger girl came over, grabbed the money in her hand, and stuffed it into his pocket: "These two days, I even gave away the car and the passengers for free! You kid is lucky! Just don't be ungrateful!" After that, she turned around and locked the door.

[1]

The master is a human being. This refers to the owner of the chartered car.

[2]

To blow means to disperse and finish.

[3]

The white house, the lowest brothel.

[4]

Swift means fast.

seven

Xiangzi went to Cao's house.

He felt a little ashamed of Tiger Girl. But since the matter was due to her temptation, and he didn't want to covet her money, he thought that there would be nothing terribly wrong in breaking up with her from now on. What he was worried about was that Fourth Master Liu was holding his little money. Go and ask for it right away, I'm afraid the old man is too worried. She never went to see their father and daughter again. Maybe the tiger girl got angry and said some bad words to the old man, and "exploded" the little money. He should continue to ask the old man to save money. He would have to run into her as soon as he arrived at Renhe Factory, which was embarrassing. He couldn't think of a proper solution, and the more he had no solution, the more uneasy he became.

He really wanted to ask Mr. Cao for an idea, but how should he say it? The part about Tiger Girl cannot be told to anyone. Thinking of this, he really regretted it. What happened was that he began to understand that it couldn't be cut off in two ways. This kind of thing can never be cleaned away, like a black scar on the flesh. He lost his car for no reason, and this entanglement came again for no reason. He felt that his life was probably over, and no matter how hard he tried to be strong, it was all in vain. After thinking about it, he realized this: in the end, he would probably have to be willing to ask for the tiger girl; not for her, but also for those cars? "The bastard eats two pieces of fried meat"! He couldn't bear it, but when the time came, he might have to do it! He had no choice but to keep going, doing the good things and waiting for the bad ones; he no longer dared to be as confident as before. His stature, strength, and ambition are all irrelevant; his life is his own, but he can teach others to take care of it; he can teach some bastard to take care of it.

Logically speaking, he should be very happy, because Cao Zhai is the cutest among the houses he has ever been in. The wages at Cao's house are not more than elsewhere, and there is not a lot of change except for the three-section reward. However, Mr. Cao and Mrs. Cao are very kind and treat everyone as individuals. Xiangzi is willing to make more money and work hard to make money, but he also wants to have a place like a house and enough food to eat. Everything in Cao's house is clean, even the servants' rooms are clean; the food in Cao's house is not bitter, and they never give smelly food to their servants. He had a spacious room, could eat three meals in a leisurely manner, and the owner was very polite. Xiangzi, even Xiangzi, was not willing to focus on money. Besides, the food and accommodation are suitable, the work is not tiring, and taking good care of your body is not a disadvantage. He would never eat so well if he paid for his own food. Now that there are ready-made vegetables and rice, and the food will not go down his spine, why doesn't he eat to the fullest? Food is also bought with money, and he calculates this account very clearly. Besides, although the Cao family doesn't play cards, doesn't treat guests often, and doesn't have much change, they can still get a dime or two from doing any temporary work. For example, if his wife asks him to buy pills for his child, she will give him an extra cent and ask him to take a car, even though she knows that he can run faster than anyone else. This little money is nothing, but it makes him feel a kind of humanity, a kind of consideration, which makes people feel happy. Xiangzi had met quite a few masters, and nine out of ten of them would pay them one day late, just one day later, which meant that they were using people for nothing, and the servants were nothing more than cats and dogs, or worse than cats and dogs. The Cao family is an exception, so he likes to be here. He tidied the yard and watered the flowers without waiting for their orders, and every time they saw him doing these things, they would always say something nice. Taking advantage of this season, they found some old things and taught him how to change them for matches. Although they were still usable, he kept them by himself. Here, he felt something human.

In Xiangzi's eyes, Fourth Master Liu can be regarded as Huang Tianba. Although he is powerful, when it comes to saving face and calling for name, he will never be black-faced. The decent person in his heart, apart from Huang Tianba, is the Saint Kong. He couldn't understand what kind of person Saint Kong was, but it was said that he knew a lot of Chinese characters, which was quite reasonable. Among the houses he had mixed with, there were both literary and military men; among the martial men, there was not even one who could catch up with Fourth Master Liu; among the literary men, although there were gentlemen who taught in universities and some who worked as errands in yamen, they certainly knew a lot of people, but he did not meet anyone who was reasonable. Even if the husband is reasonable, the ladies will be difficult to serve. Only Mr. Cao is literate and reasonable, and Mrs. Cao is also well-behaved and popular. Therefore, Mr. Cao must be Sage Kong. If Xiangzi cannot remember what Sage Kong looks like, then he must be like Mr. Cao, whether Sage Kong likes it or not.

In fact, Mr. Cao is not very clever. He is just a middle-level person who sometimes teaches and sometimes does other things. He regarded himself as a "socialist" and an aestheticist, who was slightly influenced by William Morris. He does not have profound opinions in politics or art; but he has one advantage: the little bit he believes in can be implemented in small events in life. He seems to have realized that he does not have amazing talents and can do some earth-shattering things, so he arranges his work and family according to his own ideals. Although he does not contribute to society, he at least wants to be consistent with his words and deeds and not be a hypocrite. Therefore, he pays great attention to small things, as if to say that as long as the small family is arranged beautifully, society can be casual. This sometimes makes him feel ashamed, and sometimes makes him feel proud. It seems that he can clearly see that his family is a small oasis in the desert, which can only provide some water and food that come here, and has no greater significance.

Xiangzi happened to come to this small oasis; after walking in the desert for so many days, he thought it was a miracle. He had never met anyone like Mr. Cao, so he regarded this man as a sage. This may be because he has little experience, or maybe there are not many people like this in the world. When he pulled Mr. Cao out, he was very happy because Mr. Cao's clothes were so elegant, his person was so lively and generous, and he was so neat and tall, and he was very happy, as if he was the only one worthy of pulling Mr. Cao. At home, everything is so clean and always so quiet, making him feel comfortable and settled. When he was in the countryside, he often saw old people sitting silently in winter or under the autumn moon, holding bamboo pipes in their mouths. Although he was still young and could not imitate these old people, he liked to see them sitting quietly like this. He must have guessed what it was like. Although he was in the city now, the tranquility of Cao's house reminded him of the countryside. He really wanted to smoke a pipe and try to get a taste of it.

Unfortunately, that woman and that little money made him unable to feel at ease; his heart was like a green leaf, wrapped in silk by a bug, preparing to make a cocoon. Because of this matter, he himself couldn't let go; when it came to others, even Mr. Cao, he was always in a daze, and his answers were not what he asked. This made him very sad. Cao Zhai went to bed very early and would be fine by around nine o'clock in the evening. He sat alone in the house or courtyard, thinking over and over again, thinking about these two things. He even thought of getting married right away, which would definitely put an end to Huniu's thoughts. But how can you support your family by pulling a cart? He knew the poor people in the courtyard. The men pulled carts and the women worked as sewing machines. The children picked up coal cores. In summer, they picked up watermelon rinds on the mounds and gnawed them. In winter, they all went to work at the porridge factory. Xiangzi couldn't bear this. Besides, if he gets married, Old Man Liu will definitely not get back the little money in his hand; how could Huniu be willing to let him go so easily? He couldn't give up that little money, it was earned with his life!

His own car was purchased early last fall. It's been more than a year, and now he has nothing, only more than thirty yuan that he can't get out, and some worries! The more he thought about it, the more unhappy he became.

It’s been more than ten days since the Mid-Autumn Festival, and the weather is slowly getting cooler. He planned to add two more clothes. Money again! You can’t buy clothes but still have money left over at the same time. You can’t even hope to buy a car! Even if I get a monthly subscription, what will happen to me in this life?

One night, Mr. Cao came back late from Dongcheng. Xiangzi was careful and walked across the street from Tiananmen Square. There were no people on the open road, the slight cool breeze, and the quiet lights made him run with more energy. The depression in his heart for many days was temporarily forgotten. Listening to his own footsteps and the soft sound of the bow of the car, he forgot everything. After unbuttoning his buttons, he felt the cool breeze blowing on his chest. He felt happy, as if he could just run like this until he ran to an unknown place. He might as well run to death. He ran faster and faster, and there was a car in front of him. He "drove" one and passed Tiananmen in a while. His feet seemed to be like two springs, bouncing up almost as soon as he touched the ground; the wheels behind him spun so fast that no traces could be seen, and the leather wheels seemed to have left the ground, and even the people and the car seemed to be blown up by the strong wind. Mr. Cao was struck by the cool breeze and was probably half asleep, otherwise he would have stopped Xiangzi from running away like this. Xiangzi ran away, thinking vaguely that he could sleep well today without having to think about anything anymore, even though he was sweating all over.

Not far from Beichang Street, the northern half of the road was darkened by the locust trees outside the red wall. Just as Xiangzi was about to take a step back, his feet hit something taller. The feet have arrived, and so have the wheels. Xiangzi fell out. Click, the handlebar is broken. "What's wrong?" Mr. Cao said as he spoke. Xiangzi got up on the spot without making a sound. Mr. Cao also sat up briskly. "What's wrong?"

There was a pile of newly unloaded stones to repair the road, but there was no red light.

"Did you fall?" Xiangzi asked.

"No. I'll walk back while you pull the cart." Mr. Cao was still calm and touched the rocks to see if there was anything that had fallen.

Xiangzi touched the broken section of the handlebar: "It's not broken much, sir, you can still sit on it and you can pull it!" As he said that, he pulled the car out of the stone. "Sit down, sir!"

Mr. Cao didn't want to sit down anymore, but he heard Xiangzi's words sounding like crying, so he had no choice but to go up.

Arriving under the electric light at the entrance of Beichang Street, Mr. Cao saw a piece of skin wiped off with his right hand. "Xiangzi, stop!"

When Xiangzi turned around, his face was covered with blood.

Mr. Cao was scared and couldn't think of what to say, "Hurry, hurry -"

Xiangzi was confused and thought he was being taught to run fast. He grabbed his waist and ran home in a hurry.

After putting down the car, he saw blood on Mr. Cao's hands and hurriedly ran to the courtyard to ask his wife for medicine.

"Leave me alone, look at yourself first!" Mr. Cao ran in. Xiangzi looked at himself and began to feel pain. His knees and right elbow were all broken. He thought the sweat on his face was sweat, but it turned out to be blood. Regardless of what he was doing or thinking, he sat on the stone steps of the doorway and stared blankly at the broken handlebars of the car. The brand-new black car had its head folded, revealing two bare pieces of white wood residue. It was very inconsistent and ugly, like a beautiful paper figure that had not been put on its feet and had two naked stalks sticking out of it. Xiangzi stared blankly at the two pieces of white wood. "Xiangzi!" Gao Ma, the Cao family's maid, shouted loudly, "Xiangzi! Where are you?"

He sat still, staring intently at the broken handlebar. The two pieces of white wood seemed to have penetrated into his heart.

"What a fool you are! You don't say a word, you hide here; look, you scared me! Sir, call you!" Gao Ma's words always mix things with emotions, which are obviously complicated and touching. She is a widow in her thirties, clean, cheerful, quick and careful in her work. Elsewhere, some people think she is too open-minded, has too many ideas, and is often a bit arrogant. The Cao family likes to use clean and bright people, but they don’t pay much attention to those small festivals[1]

, so she has been following them for two or three years. Even when the Cao family goes to other places, they always take her with them. "Mr. call you!" she said again. When Xiangzi stood up, she saw the blood on his face clearly: "I'm scared to death, my mother! What's wrong? If you don't move, you've got tetanus! Let's go! There's medicine there, sir!"

Xiangzi walked in front, Gao Ma was nagging behind, and they entered the study together. Mrs. Cao was also here, wrapping her husband's hands with medicine. When she saw Xiangzi coming in, she also said "yo".

"Madam, he fell so hard this time." Gao Ma was afraid that his wife wouldn't be able to tell, so she poured cold water into the basin, and was even more busy talking: "I knew it earlier. He didn't care about his life as soon as he started running. Sooner or later, something will happen. As expected! Why don't you wash him quickly? After washing, put some medicine on him, ugh!"

Xiangzi held his right elbow and did not move. The study was so clean and elegant, and it looked very unseemly to have a big man like him with blood on his face. Everyone seemed to feel that something was wrong, even Gao Ma was speechless.

"Sir!" Xiangzi lowered his head and said in a low but powerful voice: "Sir, find someone else! You can keep this month's salary to clean up the car: the handlebar is broken and the left light has a broken piece of glass; everything else is fine."

"Wash it first, apply some medicine, and then talk about anything else." Mr. Cao said, looking at his hand, while his wife was slowly wrapping gauze on it.

"Wash up first!" Gao Ma also thought of talking again. "Sir didn't say anything. Don't knock me down first!"

Xiangzi still didn't move. "No need to wash it, it'll be fine in a while! A monthly renter fell down someone or hit a car. He's too shameless to..." His words weren't enough to express what he meant, but his emotions had already been vented, and he just had to cry loudly. Resigning and giving up the salary is almost equivalent to committing suicide in Xiangzi's opinion. But responsibility and face seemed to be more important than life at this time, because it was not someone else who fell, but Mr. Cao. If he throws that Mrs. Yang, she deserves it! To Mrs. Yang, he could show off his arrogance on the streets, because she didn't treat him the same way as others, and he couldn't be polite; money was everything, and there was no dignity to speak of, so there was no such thing as rules. Mr. Cao is not that kind of person at all. He had to sacrifice money to save his face. He didn't care who he hated, he only hated his own life. He almost thought: after leaving Cao's house, he would never pull a cart again; even if his own life was worthless, he could still fight for it; what about other people's lives? What should I do if I really want to fall to death? He had never thought of this before, because this time he injured Mr. Cao, so he realized this. Okay, I don’t have to pay for it, I’ll change my career from now on, and I won’t do this thing that costs people’s lives anymore. Pulling carts was his ideal career, and to give it up would be to give up hope. He felt that he would have to live his whole life in a fool's lurch, and he didn't even have to think about becoming a good cart puller because he had grown so big in vain! When we were dispersing the seats outside, he once "copied" him unceremoniously[2]

Buying and selling is ridiculed by everyone, but he can forgive himself for being so shameless because he wants to be strong and want to buy a car. If you get into trouble for asking for a monthly payment, what can you say? This is going to be known. Xiangzi threw someone and broke the car. Who is pulling the chartered car? What the hell! Xiangzi has no way out! He couldn't wait for Mr. Cao to quit him, so he had to get out!

"Xiangzi," Mr. Cao's hands were already wrapped, "wash up! Don't say anything about resigning first. It's not your fault. You should put a red light when you put stones. Forget it, wash up and apply some medicine."

"Yes, sir," Gao Ma remembered what she was saying again, "Xiangzi can't get rid of him. Originally, he threw sir like this! But since sir said it's not your fault, you can't be awkward anymore! Look at him like this, he's not very strong. Damn, he's still like a child, he's really anxious! Madam, please tell him not to worry!" Gao Ma's words were like a gramophone record, speaking in a circle, including everyone, without any trace of succession.

"Wash up quickly, I'm afraid!" Mrs. Cao only said this.

Xiangzi was very confused. Finally, when he heard his wife say that she was afraid of blood, he seemed to have found something that could comfort her. I took out the washbasin and washed a few at the door of the study. Gao Ma was waiting for him inside the door with a medicine bottle.

"What about the arms and legs?" Gao Ma smeared his face. Xiangzi shook his head, "It doesn't matter!"

Mr. and Mrs. Cao went to rest. Gao Ma took the medicine bottle and followed Xiangzi out. When she got to his house, she put down the medicine bottle and stood at the door: "You can apply it yourself later. I said, don't be so obsessed with this matter. Back then, when my old man was alive, I often quit my job. Firstly, I was burdened outside, so he didn't want to be strong and made me angry. Secondly, he was young and arrogant, and if he didn't agree with me, he would leave! Work hard to make money, not a slave; you have Your dirty money, my clay figurine also has a local character; the old lady can't take care of me! Now I'm much better. Once the old man is dead, I have nothing to worry about, and my temper is better. But here - I have been working here for three years; but the change on September 9th is too little, but they are pretty good to people. What we sell is for money; we can't pawn it off. But it has to be said that it is good to take a long-term view: working part-time for three days and six months a year is not a big deal; if you meet a kind boss and can't stand it, the change will be less, but you can still have a little money by living on the job. You're still a little brother, it's easy to get angry. It's not necessary to be too angry. It's better to stay here for a while than to fly around. I'm not talking to them at all. It's good to be together!" She took a breath and said, "Don't be stupid, I'm honest."

Xiangzi's right elbow hurt so much that he couldn't sleep in the middle of the night. After a lot of calculation, he felt that Gao Ma's words were reasonable. Nothing is fake, only money is real. Save money to buy a car; you can’t eat when the car is on fire! Thinking of this, I felt a little peaceful sleepiness.

[1]

Festivals, details, little rules.

[2]

Taking over other people's ongoing business is called "copying".

Remember to take a break when you are tired from reading~

Public account: Good Cat Ning Li

E-book search and download

Book list sharing

Book Friends Learning and Exchange

Website: Chenjin Bookstore https://www.chenjin5.com

E-book search and download

E-book packaging resource sharing

Learning resource sharing eight

Mr. Cao packed up the car and did not deduct Xiangzi's wages. Mrs. Cao gave him two pills of "Three Huang Bao Wax", but he didn't take them either. He didn't mention resigning again. Although I felt embarrassed for several days, Gao Ma's words won the final victory. After some days, his life got on the same track again. He gradually forgot about this incident, and all hope sprouted again. When he was sitting alone in the room, his eyes were shining, thinking about how to save money and how to buy a car; he couldn't help mumbling, as if he had a heart attack. His arithmetic is not very clever, but he often chants "six six thirty six" in his heart and mouth; this has little to do with the number of his money, but just by repeating it like this, his heart seems to be fuller, as if he has an account.

He admired Gao Ma quite a bit and felt that this woman had more mentality and ability than ordinary men. Her words were taken from the root. He didn't dare to catch up with her for a chat, but if he met her in the courtyard or at the door, if she had time to say a few words, he would be willing to listen to her. Every time she said something, it was always enough for him to think about it for a long time, so whenever he met her, he would smile stupidly, letting her know that he admired her words, and she felt a little proud, even if she didn't have time, she had to say a few words.

However, as for how to deal with the money, he didn't dare to just follow her idea. Her idea, he thought, wasn't really a bad idea; but it was a bit risky. He was very willing to listen to her, learned a lot of tricks, and was obviously generous; in practice, he still had the same old idea - not to let go of money easily.

Yes, Gao Ma did have a solution: ever since she became a widow, she had given out the little money she could have left in the month, one dollar was a lump sum, two dollars was a lump sum, and it was given to servants, second- and third-class patrolmen, and those doing small businesses, and the interest was at least three cents. These people are often anxious for a dollar, and even if someone lends them a dollar and counts it as two dollars, they still have to reach out and take it. Otherwise, money will not teach them to see; the money they see is poisonous, and it will drain their blood when they take it, but they still have to hold on. They have the courage to pick up anything that can give them a breath of relief; life is about talking about it after taking a breath, and then talk about tomorrow tomorrow. Gao Ma had suffered from this poison when her husband was alive. Her husband came to her drunk and had to spend one dollar. If he didn't, he would get drunk and make a fuss outside the house. She had no choice but to borrow the money immediately no matter how high the interest was. She had learned this method from this experience, not as a revenge, but as a legitimate, almost emergency act of charity. If there are those who are in urgent need of money and those who are willing to lend it, Zhou Yu will give him a yellow cover and he will be willing to accept it!

In terms of purpose, she believed that there was nothing she couldn't do, so in terms of methods, she had to be more powerful. She couldn't use money to float the boat; she said what she said. This requires vision, means, caution, and fierceness, and even if it is good, you will put the eagle down[1]

. She takes no less pains than the bank manager because she requires more caution. Capital comes in different sizes, and doctrines are the same, because this is a capitalist society. It is like a very fine and very large sieve, sifting money from the top bit by bit, the lower the money, the less; at the same time, it also sifts ism downwards, but there are more on the upper and lower sides, because ism is not as afraid of small sieve holes as money. It is intangible and can slip through any tiny hole. Everyone says Gao Ma is great, and she admits it herself; her strength is tempered by hardship and suffering. She gritted her teeth when she thought of the hardships she suffered in the past, how even her husband was so ruthless and unreasonable. She can be kind or vicious, and she knows she can't live in this world otherwise.

She also advised Xiangzi to put the money out, out of good intentions. If he was willing, she could help him: "Tell you, Xiangzi, if you put it in your pocket, a piece will always be a piece! If you put it out, the money will fall! That's right, what are our eyes for? Let the money go after you have seen it accurately, and you can't let the bald-tailed eagle go. As a patrol If the policeman doesn't give you any benefits, or he doesn't return his money, go to his inspector! In a word, he has to put aside his errands. Dare you find out about the payment period. If you don't pay back, Xin Xin will give it to you one to ten. We have to have a clue. OK, let him go and take the blame. Is that okay? You listen to me. "

Xiangzi didn't need to say anything, his air was enough to show that he admired Gao Ma's words. When he thought about it alone, he felt that the money in his own hands was safer than anything else. Yes, it’s a dead end if you do this, and you won’t lose money; but it’s also true that you can’t lose it. He gently took out the few dollars he had left over the past two or three months - all of which were foreign currency - and fiddled with them piece by piece, fearing to make any noise. The foreign currency was so white, thick and eye-catching that he felt that he must not let go of it unless he used it to buy a car. Everyone has their own way, and he can't just follow Gao Ma.

It turns out that in a family named Fang, the entire family, including the servants, had a savings coupon at the post office. Mrs. Fang also advised Xiangzi: "You can set up a zhezi for just one dollar. Why don't you make one? As the saying goes, you will always miss the day but don't look forward to it until you have no time; the young and young will not take advantage of their youth and strength to have a few left, three hundred and sixty-six dollars a year. It can’t be sunny every day for ten days. It’s easy, reliable, and profitable. How can it be convenient if you can use it when you’re saddled? Go and ask for a list. If you don’t know how to write it, I’ll fill it in for you. I’m so kind!

Xiangzi knew that she meant well, and knew that the cook Wang Liu and the nanny Zi Qinma had tricks. He really wanted to give it a try. But one day Miss Fang asked him to put in ten dollars. He took a closer look at the small booklet. There were words on it and a small red seal; in total, huh, it was probably as heavy as a dozen toilet paper. After handing the money in, they drew a few words on the fold and stamped it with a small seal. He felt that this was not a scam, it had to be a scam; just put in the white and colorful cash and just rely on others to paint it three times or five times and it would be over. Xiangzi would not be fooled by this. He suspected that the Fang family had something to do with the post office business - he always thought that the post office was a business with semicolons everywhere, and the brand size was probably very old, at least similar to Ruifuxiang and Hongji - so he was so enthusiastic about promoting business. Even if this is not the case, having cash in hand is better than having small discounts, much better! The money on the booklet is just a few words!

As for the bank number, he only knew that it was a place for "seating". If the patrol police did not stop the parking of cars there, he would definitely be able to get "business" done. As for what was going on inside, he couldn't guess. Yes, there must be a lot of money here; but why come here just for fun[2]

He didn't understand money; he couldn't relate to it anyway, so he couldn't worry about it. There were many things in the city that he didn't understand, and listening to his friends' discussions in the teahouse made him even more confused, because each person had an explanation, and none of them understood what they were talking about. He didn't want to listen anymore, and he didn't want to think too much. He knew that if he wanted to rob, it would be better to rob a bank. Since he didn't want to be a bandit, he could just take his own money and don't worry about anything else. He thought this was the most sophisticated way.

Gao Ma knew that he was eager to buy a car, so she gave him another idea: "Xiangzi, I know you won't let go of the money, so it's a good idea to buy your own car early! If I were a man, if I could also pull a car, I would have to pull my own car; I pull and sing by myself, and I don't ask for anything. Man! If you could do this, I wouldn't change it if you were given a job as a county magistrate! Pulling a cart is hard work, but if I were a man and had the strength, I would not work as a patrolman. I am always standing on the street in winter and summer, earning only two dollars a month, no extra money, no freedom; if I grow a beard, I will not change it. That’s right, there’s really no improvement at all. I mean, by the way, if you want to buy a car quickly, I’ll give you a good idea: buy one for ten or at most twenty people, and it’ll cost you two yuan per person a month. If you do it for a while, it won’t be more than forty yuan right away. ? You have some savings, just go ahead and get a car. Once you get the car, it's not profitable and it's a decent thing. If you really want to hire me, I won't do anything wrong!"

This really made Xiangzi's heart beat faster! If you really have to scrape together thirty or forty yuan, plus the more than thirty yuan in Mr. Liu's hand and the few yuan he has now, wouldn't it be around eighty? Although it’s not enough to buy a 100% new car, you can still do it with an 80% new car! Besides, this way, he could ask Fourth Master Liu to get the money back, instead of letting it go like this forever. If it's 80% new, just let it be 80% new. Hold on to it and replace it when you have more.

But where can we find twenty people like this? Even if you can get it together, it's just a matter of face. If you can wait for the money, why don't you just invite me over? Why don't they invite you over tomorrow? Get up, in these poor years, there are often times when there is a fuss! A good man doesn't ask for help; simply, if he can afford a car, buy it; he doesn't ask for help!

Seeing that Xiangzi didn't move, Gao Ma really wanted to tease him, but when she thought about his sincerity, she felt embarrassed and said, "You're really good! 'Herding pigs in a small alley - go straight'; that's fine!"

Xiangzi didn't say anything. When Gao Ma left, he nodded to himself, seeming to admit that his ability to kill was worthy of admiration, and he was very happy in his heart.

It was already early winter, and at night the alleys were selling sugar-roasted chestnuts. In addition to groundnuts, there was also the sad "chamber pot vomiting". The chamber pot was a stuffed gourd jar with a tile on the handle. Xiangzi bought a large one. The first business was that the chamber pot seller couldn't find any money. Xiangzi felt happy. He looked at the small green chamber pot. It was very interesting. It was green and pouted. "No need for change, I'll do this!" Putting down the stuffy gourd jar, he sent the little green chamber pot inside: "Where is the young master not sleeping? I give you a good thing!"

Everyone was watching Xiaowen - the little boy of the Cao family - taking a bath, and they couldn't help but laugh when they saw this thing. The Cao couple didn't say anything. They probably felt that although this thing was stupid, Xiangzi's kindness should be accepted, so they all smiled and expressed their gratitude to him. Gao Ma's mouth will not be idle: "Look, it's true, Xiangzi! Such a big man can come up with such a brilliant idea; how unpleasant it is!"

Xiaowen liked this thing very much, and immediately filled the small teapot with water from the bathtub: "This small teapot has a big mouth!"

Everyone laughed even harder. Xiangzi straightened his body - because he doesn't know how to get better when he is proud - and walked out. He was very happy. This was something he had never experienced before. Everyone's smiling faces were all facing him, as if he was a very important person. Smiling, he took out the pieces of cash and gently put them one by one into the gourd jar, thinking in his heart: This is more reliable than anything else! When we have enough, we touch the wall and we find that there are more tiles than tiles!

He decided not to ask anyone for help. Even though Mr. Liu is so reliable, he is obviously awkward at times. The money cannot be lost because it is in Mr. Liu's hands, but he still feels a little uneasy. Money is like a ring, it is always better to have it in your own hands. This decision made him happy, and he felt as if his belt had tightened another buckle, making his chest straighter and harder.

It was getting colder and colder, but Xiangzi didn't seem to notice. With a certain idea in mind, there will be more light in front of your eyes; you will not feel cold in the light. Ice appeared on the ground for the first time, and even the soil on the sidewalk solidified, looking dry and solid everywhere. The color of the black soil had turned slightly yellow, as if the moisture had been dispersed. Especially early in the morning, there were several frost edges on the edges of the soil rolled up by the carts, and the small wind blew away the morning glow, revealing a very high, blue, and refreshing sky. Xiangzi was willing to pull the cart for an early trip, and the cool wind blew into his sleeves, making his whole body shiver as if he were taking a cold shower. Sometimes a strong wind blew up and knocked the wind out of him, but he lowered his head, gritted his teeth, and burrowed forward, like a big fish floating against the current; the stronger the wind, the greater his resistance, as if he was fighting to the death with the strong wind. The strong gust of wind made him unable to breathe. He closed his mouth, and for a long time, he let out a burp, as if he had been stabbed in the water. After hiccupping, he continued to run forward, rushing forward. Nothing could stop this giant; no muscle in his body was slack, like a green worm being besieged by ants, his whole body was shaking to resist. This sweat! When he put down the car, straightened his back, exhaled a long breath, and wiped the yellow sand from the corner of his mouth, he felt that he was invincible; watching the wind covered with gray sand sweep past him, he nodded. The wind bent the trees on the roadside, tore the shop curtains to pieces, removed the bills on the wall, and dimmed the sun. It was singing, shouting, roaring, and echoing! Suddenly he galloped straight, like a frightened elf, running wildly; suddenly panicked, rolling around in all directions, like a demon who decided to collide for some reason; suddenly swept across, taking advantage of it to attack everything on the ground, twisting branches, blowing off roof tiles, and breaking wires; However, Xiangzi was there watching; he had just come out of the wind, and the wind could not do anything to him! Victory belongs to Xiangzi! When there was a tailwind, he only had to hold the handlebars firmly and he didn't have to run. The wind would turn the wheel for him, like a good friend.

Naturally, since he was not blind, he must have also seen those old and weak coachmen. They were wearing rags that were worn through by a small breeze and torn apart by a strong wind. They had something tied to their feet. At the entrance of the car, they were shivering, their eyes glaring like thieves. No matter where someone came out from, they would always ask: "Car?!" After making a deal, they warmed up, and their thin and torn clothes were soaked with sweat. When they stopped, their sweat turned to ice on their backs. When the wind hits them, they can't lift a step and have to drag the car away; the wind hits them from above, and they have to lower their heads to their chests; the wind comes from below, and their feet can't find the ground; the wind comes from the front, and they fly kites when they raise their hands; the wind comes from behind, and they can't control the car and themselves. However, they tried every means and exerted all their strength to drag the car to a dead end, saving a life for a few copper coins. After being pulled away from the car, the dirt and dust were turned into mud by sweat and stuck to his face, leaving only three frozen red circles around his eyes and mouth. The days are so short and cold, and there are not many people on the street. Working hard all day like this may not necessarily earn a full meal; but the old ones still have wives and children at home; the young ones have parents and younger siblings! In winter, they are completely in hell. They have more vitality than ghosts, but they are not as free and at ease as ghosts. Ghosts are not as tired as they are! Dying like a dog on the street is their greatest peace and freedom; ghosts who freeze to death, it is said, have some smiles on their faces!

How could Xiangzi not see this? But he had no time to worry about them. Their sins were also his, but he was young and strong, could bear the hard work, was not afraid of cold or wind, had a clean place to live in at night, and had neat clothes during the day, so he felt that he was not comparable to them. Although he was suffering with them now, the degree of suffering was not exactly the same; now that he suffered less, he could escape from here in the future; he thought that if he reached old age, he would not still be pulling a broken cart to starve and freeze. He believed that superiority now would guarantee victory in the future. Just like when you meet a driver in a restaurant or outside a house, they are unwilling to chat together; the driver feels that it is beneath your status to have any contact with the foreign rickshaw drivers. The rickshaw driver's attitude towards the foreign rickshaw driver is a bit like Xiangzi's towards the old, weak and disabled soldiers; they are both in hell, but at a different level. They didn't expect that everyone had to stand together, but each went his own way. Individual hopes and efforts blinded everyone's eyes. Everyone felt that they could start a family and start a business with their bare hands, and each of them groped for his or her own path in the darkness. Xiangzi doesn't care about others. He only thinks about his own money and future success.

The streets are gradually starting to look like they are in the middle of the year. On a clear and windless day, although the weather is dry and cold, there are more colors on the roadside: New Year pictures, gauze lanterns, red candles, silk head flowers, and large and small honey offerings are all displayed, making people feel happy but also a little uneasy; because everyone wants to be happy for a few days during the New Year, but there are also some difficulties. Xiangzi's eyes became brighter, and when he saw the New Year's goods on the roadside, he thought that it was time for the Cao family to give gifts; a gift would always cost him a few cents of wine money. The fixed reward for the festival was two yuan, which was not much. But when people came to celebrate the New Year, he would give them away, and he would have to get two cents or thirty cents for each trip. If you put it all together, it will make a difference; don’t worry about the shortage, just get it in bits and pieces; his boring gourd jar will not hurt anyone! When he had nothing to do in the evening, he stared at the friend Wa who could only eat money but refused to spit it out, and whispered advice: "Eat more, eat more, man! If you eat more, I will be fine!"

The New Year is getting closer and closer, and it’s already Laba in a blink of an eye. Joy or fear forces people to plan and make arrangements; it is still a 24-hour day, but these days are different from usual. They do not allow anyone to spend them casually. They must do something, and they must be done towards the New Year. It is as if time suddenly has consciousness and emotions, allowing people to think and be busy with it. Xiangzi is on the happy side. The excitement on the street, the sound of hawkers, the hope of rewards and change, the New Year's rest, the imagination of good meals... all make him happy and hopeful like a child. He had thought about it, and if he broke out a piece of eighty cents, he would buy some gifts for Mr. Liu. He had to take something with him, firstly to apologize for not being able to see the old man these days because the house was very busy; secondly, he could just hand over the thirty yuan. Spending a dollar and getting that amount back is a good deal. With this in mind, he gently shook the piggy bank, imagining how heavy and sweet the sound would be if he added more than thirty yuan. Yes, as long as he gets the money back, he will have nothing to worry about!

One night, when he was about to shake the cornucopia again, Gao Ma called him: "Xiangzi! There is a lady at the door looking for you; I was coming back from the street, and she asked me about you." When Xiangzi came out, she added in a low voice: "She is like a big black tower! She is very scared of people!"

Xiangzi's face suddenly turned red like a ball of fire. He knew that something was going to be bad!

[1]

Release the eagle and all is lost.

[2]

Gutiao means repeated teasing.

Nine

Xiangzi had almost no strength to step out of the gate. I was dazed, my feet were still within the threshold, and I saw Miss Liu through the lights on the street. Her face was probably powdered again, and it looked a bit gray-green when illuminated by the light, like a layer of frost hanging on the black withered leaves. Xiangzi didn't dare to look at her.

The expression on Huniu's face was very complicated: there was a glimmer of desire to see him in her eyes; her mouth was open a little, showing a bit of a sneer; her nose had some wrinkles, folded with some disdain and eagerness; her eyebrows were ridged, showing a seductive and domineering look on her strange pink face. When she saw Xiangzi coming out, she curled her lips a few times and stared blankly at the ground with all the expressions on her face unable to find a suitable home. She swallowed, seemed to suppress her complex expressions and emotions, and used some of the outfield energy gained from Fourth Master Liu. She half-annoyed and half-smiled, pretending not to care and said, "You're good! A meat bun beats a dog and never looks back!" Her voice was high, just like when she usually quarreled with the drivers in the depot. After saying these two sentences, the smile on her face disappeared at all. Suddenly she seemed to feel ashamed and despicable, and she bit her lip.

"Stop yelling!" Xiangzi seemed to put all his strength on his lips and burst out these two words. The sound was very small, but extremely powerful.

"Huh! I'm not afraid!" She smiled maliciously, but she couldn't help but lower her voice slightly. "I can't blame you for hiding from me. I wish there was a little goblin-like old woman here; I've known for a long time that you are not a toy. Don't look at the stupid, big, black and thick one. A Tatar pulls out his pipe and pretends to be stupid when he is not stupid!" Her voice became louder again. "Don't yell!" Xiangzi was afraid that Gao Ma would be secretly obedient behind the door. "Stop yelling! Come this way!" he said as he walked towards the road.

"I'm not afraid of anything, I just have such a loud voice!" He protested, but she followed him.

After crossing the road and coming to Dongbian Road, Xiangzi squatted down against the red wall of the park - he had not forgotten his habit in the countryside. "Why are you here?" "Me? Humph, there are so many things to do!" She put her left hand on her waist and stretched her belly. She looked down at him, thought for a while, and seemed to feel some kindness and pity for him: "Xiangzi! I have something to do with you, something important!"

This soft "xiangzi" dispersed his anger a lot. He raised his head and looked at her. There was still nothing cute about her, but the "xiangzi" still rang slightly in his heart, with a gentle and kind tone, as if he had heard it somewhere before, arousing some undeniable and hard-to-break feelings. He still whispered, but more gently: "What's the matter?"

"Xiangzi!" She leaned closer and said, "I have it!"

"What's there?" He was confused for a moment.

"This!" She pointed to her belly. "You make up your mind!"

Stunned, he said "ah" and suddenly understood everything. Ten thousand things that he had never thought of rushed into his mind. They came so much, so urgently, and so chaoticly that his mind suddenly became blank, like a movie suddenly cut off. The street was very quiet. There were some gray clouds in the sky covering the moon. There was a small breeze from time to time on the ground, blowing the dead branches and leaves. There were a few sharp cats meowing in the distance. Xiangzi's heart was confused and blank, and he didn't even hear these sounds. He cupped his chin with his hands and stared at the ground blankly, as if the ground was about to move. He couldn't think of anything, and he didn't want to think about anything. He only felt that he was getting smaller and smaller, but he couldn't completely shrink into the ground. His whole life seemed to be based on this discomfort; nothing else! Only then did he feel cold, and even his lips trembled slightly.

"Stop squatting and talk! Get up!" She seemed to feel cold and was willing to take a few steps.

He stood up stiffly and followed her north, still unable to find anything to say and feeling numb all over, as if he had just woken up from the cold.

"You have no idea?" She glanced at Xiangzi, with a look of love for him in her eyes.

He had nothing to say.

"It's the twenty-seventh. It's the old man's birthday. You have to come." "Busy, I'll leave at the end of the year!" Xiangzi had not forgotten his own affairs in his extremely confused heart. "I know you're a tough kid, so I won't give you the promise!" Her voice rose again, and the calmness of the street made her voice particularly clear, which made Xiangzi particularly embarrassed. "Who do you think I'm afraid of? What are your plans? If you don't want to listen to me, I don't have time to waste time with you! If you break the rules, I will block your door and scold you for three days and three nights! I can find you wherever you go! I still don't care about you!"

"Can you please stop yelling?" Xiangzi took a step away from her.

"Afraid of shouting, don't be greedy for cheap! You've got a taste for it. You asked me to take the blame alone, and you didn't open your eyes to see who I am!"

"Speak slowly, and I'll listen!" Xiangzi originally felt very cold, but he suddenly felt hot after being scolded. The heat tried to push through his frozen skin. His whole body felt itchy, and there was a special tingling on his scalp that made him panic.

"It's over now! Don't make yourself uncomfortable!" She opened her mouth, revealing her two fangs. "Unyielding Heart, I really love you, don't be ungrateful! I'm not as good as you if you mess with me, let me tell you!"

"No..." Xiangzi wanted to say, "No need to slap him or rub him three times," but he didn't think it through. He knew a lot about Peiping's witticisms, but he just said them poorly. Others said he understood, but he couldn't say it himself.

"Nothing?"

"Tell me about you!"

"I have a good idea for you," the tiger girl stopped and said to him face to face: "Look, if you ask a matchmaker to talk to you, the old man will definitely not agree. He is the one who pulls the car, and you are the one who pulls it. He refuses to go down to visit relatives. I don't care, I like you, I like you. It doesn’t matter if you want me to do anything else! No one can help me with the matchmaking. Once I go to propose marriage, the old man will just think about his dozens of cars. No one who is higher than you can do this. I have to do this myself, so I chose you. We are going to kill him first and tell him later; since I already have it, neither of us can run away! However, it still won’t work if we just go to court and tell him. The boss is very good. Even though he is almost seventy years old, he really wants to marry a little wife. I dare not say that I can still get two or three children. Believe it or not!

"Just say it here, who cares!" She followed Xiangzi's eyes and saw the patrolman: "You didn't pull the car, why are you afraid of him? Who else can he bite off for no reason? That is evil! Let's talk about it! You see, I think this: catch up with the twenty-seven old man On the boss's birthday, you go and kowtow to him. When the new year comes, you go and say New Year's greetings to please him. If I think he likes it, I'll get him some wine or something and let him drink to his heart's content. When he's drunk, you can just accept him as your godfather. He knew that I was in trouble. He would interrogate me and I would tell him "Xu Shu enters Cao Ying without saying a word." When he got really anxious, I told him that he was the recently deceased Qiao Er, the second shopkeeper of our east side room. He had no relatives. Buried in the cemetery outside Dongzhimen, where can the old man go to find out? The old man has no idea. Let's take it easy. It's better to give me to you. I'm a godson and a son-in-law. Anyway, it's not that bad. I just go with the flow and save everyone from making a fool of myself. "

Xiangzi was speechless.

Feeling that she had reached a certain point in her words, Huniu began to walk north, nodding her head low, as if she was appreciating what she had said, and as if giving Xiangzi a chance to think about it. At this time, the wind blew apart a piece of gray cloud, revealing the moonlight, and the two of them had arrived at the north end of the street. The water in Yuhe River has been frozen for a long time. It is quiet, gray, flat and solid, supporting the walls of the forbidden city. There was no sound at all in the Forbidden City. The exquisite turrets, the golden archways, the Danzhu gates, and the pavilions on Jingshan Mountain were all silent, as if they were listening to some sounds that were difficult to hear again. A small breeze blew by, like a sigh, gently passing between the towers and pavilions, as if to tell some historical news. Huniu walked west, and Xiangzi followed Jin Aoyu. There were almost no pedestrians on the bridge, and the dim moonlight shone coldly on the two large ice rinks on the left and right of the bridge. The pavilions in the distance were dim with black shadows, as quiet as if they were frozen on the lake, with only the yellow tiles on the top shining a little. The trees are moving slightly, and the moonlight is even more dim; but the white tower towers high into the clouds, making everything feel cold and desolate, and the entire Three Seas shows the desolate coldness of the north in the artificial carvings. When we reached the bridge, the air-conditioning on both sides of the ice made Xiangzi shiver, and he didn't want to go any further. On weekdays, he pulls the car across the bridge, focusing entirely on his feet, fearing that something will go wrong, without even looking to the left or right. Now, he could take a free look, but in his heart he felt that this scene was a bit scary: the gray cold ice, the slightly moving shadows of the trees, and the pale towers were all so lonely that they seemed to suddenly scream wildly or start walking wildly! Even the large white stone bridge at our feet was remarkably empty and white, and even the lights were a bit desolate. He didn't want to leave, look, or stay with her anymore; he really wanted to jump down, headfirst, break the ice, sink, and freeze in the ice like a dead fish.

"See you tomorrow!" He suddenly turned around and walked back.

"Xiangzi! That's it. See you on the twenty-seventh!" She said towards Xiangzi's broad and straight back. After saying that, she glanced at the White Tower, sighed, and walked west. Xiangzi didn't even look back, as if he was followed by a ghost, and arrived at Tuancheng in a few steps. He walked so hastily that he almost bumped into the city wall. Holding the wall with one hand, he couldn't help but cry. After being stunned for a while, the bridge shouted: "Xiangzi! Xiangzi! Come here! Xiangzi!" Huniu's voice!

He moved two steps toward the bridge very slowly. Huniu leaned up and was walking down, her mouth opened a little: "I said Xiangzi, come here; here you go!" Before he could move a few steps, she was already in front of him: "Here you are, the more than thirty yuan you saved; how many dollars are there? I’ll give you a small change! It’s just to show my heart that I care about you and protect you! Don’t be ungrateful for anything else! Just take it and don’t blame me for losing it!”

Xiangzi took the money - a dozen bills - and was stunned for a while, unable to find anything to say.

"Okay, let's see you on the twenty-seventh! See you there or not!" She smiled. "The advantage is yours, you can calculate it carefully yourself!" She turned and walked back.

He clutched the dozen bills and stared at her blankly until he reached the back of the bridge and covered her head. Gray clouds covered the moonlight again; the lights became brighter, and the bridge was extremely white, empty, and cold. He turned around, let go, and walked back like crazy; when he reached the street gate, the pale and desolate shadow of the bridge was still in his heart, as if it had only been a blink of an eye.

When he got to the house, he first counted the bills; after counting them two or three times, the sweat in his palms made the bills sticky, and the total was not accurate. After counting, put them in a stuffy gourd jar. Sitting on the edge of the bed, staring blankly at the pottery, he planned not to think about anything; if he had money, he would have a solution, and he believed that this piggy bank would solve everything for him, so he didn't have to think about anything. Yuhe, Jingshan, White Pagoda, Bridge, Huniu, Belly... were all dreams; when I woke up from the dream, I had more than 30 yuan more in my bank account, really!

Having seen enough, he hid the money and planned to take a good nap. He would be able to sleep through the huge difficulties. Let’s talk about it tomorrow!

Lying down, he couldn't close his eyes! Those things are like a swarm of bees, you come out, I go in, there is a thorn on the tip of each belly!

He didn't want to think about it, but it was also because he couldn't think about it. Huniu had blocked the road and he couldn't escape.

Better to stomp away. Xiangzi can't leave. Even if he was asked to guard the White Tower in Beihai, he would be happy; he just couldn't go to the countryside! Going to another city? He couldn't think of a better place than Peiping. He couldn't leave, he wanted to die here.

Since you don't want to leave, you don't need to waste your energy thinking about anything else. If Huniu can say it, he can do it; if he doesn't follow her way, she will always follow him to make trouble; as long as he is in Peiping, she will find him! With her, you have to tell the truth and don't try to play tricks. If she gets anxious, she will carry out Mr. Liu. If Mr. Liu betrays one or two people - needless to say - he can kill Xiangzi in any secluded place!

After thinking about Huniu's words from beginning to end, he felt like he had fallen into a trap, and his hands and feet were all caught by the clamps, making it impossible for him to escape. He couldn't criticize her ideas one by one, so he couldn't find any loopholes in her. He just felt that she was casting a desperate net, and not even a small fish could escape! Since he couldn't think about it one by one, he made it all come together, like a thousand-jin gate, and pressed it all on his head. Under this irresistible oppression, he felt that a coachman's lifelong luck was contained in two words - bad luck! A rickshaw driver, since he is a rickshaw driver, should not do anything, not even the ladies should stick to it; if they stick to each other, they will make big mistakes. Mr. Liu has dozens of cars, but Huniu will bully him with a stinky guy! He didn't have to think too hard; if he was going to accept his fate, well, he could kowtow to his godfather and then wait to marry that stinking monster. If you don't accept your fate, you will have to break it!

Thinking of this, he put aside Huniu and Huniu's words; no, this is not her power, but the fate of the rickshaw driver, just like a dog must be beaten and beaten, even children will hit it with two sticks for no reason. What is the use of such a life? Just be willing to sacrifice everything!

He stopped sleeping, kicked off the quilt, and sat up. He decided to get some wine and get drunk; what are things and what are rules? ×Your grandma! Get drunk and sleep! Twenty-seven? Even if you are twenty-eight, you will not kowtow to see who wins Xiangzi!

Putting on his big cotton-padded jacket, he picked up the small rice bowl used as a tea bowl and ran out. The wind is getting stronger, the gray clouds in the sky have dispersed, and the moon is very small, giving off a cold light. Xiangzi just came out of the hot quilt and kept breathing. There were almost no pedestrians on the street, and there were only one or two foreign cars on the roadside. The driver covered his ears with his hands and stamped his feet beside the car to keep warm. Xiangzi ran to the small shop in the south. In order to save the heat, the door had been closed, and payment and delivery were collected through a small window. Xiangzi asked for four taels of white stems and three big ounces of groundnuts. Holding the wine bowl, Ping didn't dare to run, but walked as fast as a sedan bearer back to the house. He hurriedly got into bed, chatting his upper and lower teeth for a while, unwilling to sit up again. The wine had a spicy smell on the table. He didn't like smelling it, and he didn't even seem to be interested in the peanuts. This burst of cold air was like a basin of cold water waking him up. His hands were too lazy to stretch out, and his heart was no longer so warm. After lying there for a long time, his eyes looked at the wine bowl on the table beside the quilt. No, he couldn't destroy himself because of that entanglement, and he couldn't break his drinking habit. Things were indeed difficult to handle, but there was always a crack for him to slip through. Even if there is absolutely no way to escape, he should not roll into the mud first; he should open his eyes and see clearly how others push him down.

He turned off the light, covered his head completely with the quilt, and wanted to just sleep. Still unable to sleep, I opened the window and took a look. The window paper was reflected blue by the moonlight in the courtyard, as if it was about to dawn. The tip of my nose felt the coldness in the room, and the cold air contained the smell of alcohol. He sat up suddenly, touched the wine bowl, and took a big gulp!

ten

When it comes to individual solutions, Xiangzi is not that smart. He doesn't have the courage to do a complete liquidation. So, there was nothing I could do, and I was filled with grievances all day long. Just like all life, after being damaged, you have no choice but to clean up the mess yourself. The cricket that had shaken off its thighs still wanted to crawl on those little legs. Xiangzi didn't have a definite idea. He just wanted to pass by slowly day by day, one by one, and he didn't want to jump at all.

There were still more than ten days before twenty-seven, and he completely noticed that on this day, everything he thought about, chanted in his mouth, and dreamed about was twenty-seven. It seemed that as soon as he passed twenty-seven, he had a solution to everything, even though he knew he was deceiving himself. Sometimes he also thinks about things far away, such as going to Tianjin with dozens of dollars in his hand; when he gets there, he happens to change his career and stop pulling carts. Can Huniu still chase him to Tianjin? In his mind, any place he went to by train must be far away, and she couldn't catch him no matter what. It was a good idea, but he knew in his conscience that this was only a last resort, and it would be better to decide whether he would be in Peking or not! In this way, he thought about the day on the twenty-seventh. He still thought that it would save trouble. As long as he got through this level, he could get through the matter without changing the situation; even if he couldn't get rid of it completely, after passing each level, it was a level.

How to survive this level? He had two ideas: one was to ignore her and simply not go to celebrate her birthday. The other was to do as she told him. Although these two ideas are different, the result is the same: if he doesn't go, she won't give up; if he goes, she won't let him go. He still remembered that when he first pulled a cart, he imitated others and ducked into alleys when he saw them. In order to get closer, he mistakenly entered Luoquan Hutong; he made a circle and went back to the original street. Now he entered such a small alley again, as if no matter which end he went to, the result would be the same.

In the midst of having no other choice, he tried to think better of it, and just wanted her. So what couldn't he do? However, no matter where he thought about it, he felt suffocated. Thinking about her appearance, he could only shake his head. Regardless of appearance, think about her behavior; hum! Just because he is so strong and well-behaved, and yet he marries such a loser, he can't see anyone else, and he won't even have the honor to see his parents after he dies! Who knows for certain whether the child in her belly is his? Yes, she will bring several cars; can you be sure? Fourth Master Liu is not someone to be trifled with! Even if everything goes well, he can't stand it. Can he do it better than Huniu? All she had to do was stretch out her little finger, and she could make him dizzy, and he couldn't recognize the north, south, east, west. He knows how powerful she is! If you want to start a family, you can't have her at all, there's nothing else to say! If you want her, you will lose him, and he is not someone who looks down on himself! no way!

Having no way to deal with her, he turned to hate himself and wanted to slap himself in the mouth. But, to be honest, I did nothing wrong. She had arranged everything, just waiting for him to take advantage of her. The problem seems to be that he is too honest. If you are honest, you will definitely suffer. It is unreasonable!

What makes him even more sad is that he has no place to complain about his grievances. He has no parents, brothers, or friends. On weekdays, he felt that he was a hero with his head in the sky and his feet on the ground, free from worries. Only now did he understand and repent, one cannot live alone. Especially for those who are in the same industry, they all seem a little cute now. If he had a few friends on weekdays, he thought, he would not be afraid of a big man like himself, no matter how many Huniu there were; they would give him advice and work hard for him. However, he is always alone; it is not easy to catch friends at the last moment! He felt a little bit more afraid than he had ever felt before. If this continues, no one will bully him; he alone cannot withstand the sky!

This fear made him doubt himself. In winter, when the host was having dinner or listening to a play, he would always carry the water bottle of the carbide lamp in his arms because it would freeze if left in the car. He had just run away, and he was covered in hot sweat. He pressed the cold water bottle to his chest, which made him shiver immediately. It may take a while before the water bottle becomes a little warm and energetic. But on weekdays, he doesn't think there's anything unreasonable about it; sometimes when he wears it, he thinks it's a kind of advantage. Those who pull broken cars don't need carbide lamps at all. Now, he seemed to see that he could only earn so much money in a month, but he had to endure all the hardships. Even a small water bottle was not allowed to be frozen, but had to be held in front of his chest. His chest was so wide, it seemed that a small water bottle was not worth anything. Originally, he thought that pulling a cart was his ideal job, as he could start a family and start a business by pulling a cart. Now he shook his head secretly. Don't blame Hu Niu for bullying him, he turned out to be just a person who is worse than a small water bottle!

On the third night when Huniu was looking for him, Mr. Cao went to watch a night movie with his friends. Xiangzi was waiting in a small teahouse with the small tube like a piece of ice on his chest. It was extremely cold, and the doors and windows in the small teahouse were tightly closed. It was filled with gas, the smell of sweat, and the smell of dry cigarette smoke. Despite this, there is still a layer of ice on the window. Most of the people drinking tea were people pulling monthly rickshaws, and some leaned their heads against the wall, taking advantage of the warmth in the room and closing their eyes to take a nap. Some of them held bowls of white wine and let everyone drink it, and then slowly talked about it in an orderly manner. After taking a sip, they smacked their lips and let out a loud sigh. Some of them were holding big rolls and biting off half of them, making their necks thick and red. Some of them had a sullen face and complained to everyone, how come from early in the morning to now, he has not stopped yet, and his body has been wet and dry, dry and wet, countless times! Most of the rest of the people were chatting among themselves. After hearing these two sentences, they all fell silent for a while. Then, like birds exploding their nests, they all thought of the grievances of the day and wanted to tell everyone about them. Even the man eating the big cake made enough space in his mouth to move his tongue. He swallowed the cake and spoke at the same time. Even the tendons in his head jumped: "You think you're a fucking postpartum woman? I'm going to burp!" at two o'clock. I still haven’t had my teeth cracked yet! I’ve been to the front door three times! This day, my butthole is so cold that I’m so deflated!” He glanced at everyone, nodded, and took another bite of the cake.

This turned everyone's words to the weather, and everyone talked about their hardships with the weather as the center. Xiangzi never said a word, but he paid attention to what they said. Although everyone's words are different in tone, tone, and facts, they are all curses and injustices. These words, touching the grievances in his heart, were like raindrops falling on the dry soil, and he absorbed them all. He could not, and would not, tell everyone what he said from beginning to end; he could only absorb some of the bitter taste of life from other people's words. Everyone was suffering, and he was no exception; after getting to know himself, he also wanted to sympathize with everyone. When everyone talked about the sad parts, he frowned; when everyone talked about the funny parts, he curled his lips. In this way, he felt that he was on the same page with them, and that everyone was a bitter friend. Even though he said nothing, it didn't matter. In the past, he thought that everyone was short-tongued and could not make a fortune just by talking all the time. Today seemed to be the first time that I felt that they were not just talking, but talking for him, telling him and all the coachmen's difficulties.

While everyone was chatting in the middle of the excitement, the door suddenly opened and a burst of air-conditioning came in. Almost everyone looked out angrily to see who was so unpopular and pushed the door open. The more anxious everyone is, the slower the people outside the door are, as if they are deliberately annoying[1]

. The waiter in the teahouse yelled half-hurriedly and half-laughing: "Hurry up, I'm a lonely uncle! Don't let out all the heat!"

Before he finished speaking, the person outside the door came in, also a cart puller. He looked to be in his fifties, and he was wearing a cotton-padded jacket that was neither short enough nor long enough, like a lotus basket, and the cotton on his lapels and elbows was exposed. The face seemed to have not been washed for many days, and the flesh color could not be seen. Only the two ears were red from the cold, as red as fruit about to fall. His pale hair was tied to a messy moustache under a broken hat; there were some ice beads hanging on his eyebrows and short beard. As soon as he came in, he grabbed the bench and sat down, struggling to say: "Make a pot."

This teahouse has always been a gathering place for monthly rickshaw pullers. Old rickshaw pullers like this would never come in on ordinary days.

Everyone looked at him, as if they felt something deeper than what he just said, and no one wanted to speak again. On weekdays, there would always be one or two young men who were not very sensible and would come up with a few wisecracks to make fun of such tea guests, but today no one said anything.

Before the tea was brewed, the old coachman's head slowly lowered, lowering and lowering, and his whole body slipped away.

Everyone immediately stood up: "What's the matter? What's the matter?" As they said this, they all wanted to run forward.

"Don't move!" The experienced teahouse owner stopped everyone. He went over alone, untied the old coachman's neck, helped him up on the spot, put a chair behind his back, and held his shoulders with his hands: "Sugar water, hurry up!" After saying that, he listened to the old coachman's neck and said to himself: "It's not phlegm!"

No one moved, but no one sat down again. They all blinked and looked towards the door in the smoke that filled the room. Everyone seemed to be thinking in unison: "This is our example! By the time your hair turns gray, no one will fall to their death!"

As soon as the sugar water was placed on the old coachman's lips, he hummed twice. Still closing his eyes, he raised his right hand - it was so black and shiny, as if it had been painted - and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand.

"Drink some water!" the shopkeeper said into his ear.

"Ah?" The old coachman opened his eyes. Seeing that he was sitting on the ground, he curled up his legs and tried to stand up.

"Drink some water first, don't be busy." The shopkeeper said, letting go of his hand. Almost everyone ran over.

"Hey! Hey!" The old coachman glanced around, held the tea bowl in both hands, and drank the sugar water in mouthfuls.

After slowly drinking the sugar water, he glanced at everyone again: "Hey, thank you for your help!" He said it very gently and kindly, and it definitely didn't sound like it came from the mouth of that unshaven man. After saying that, he wanted to stand up again, but three or four people went over to help him up. There was a smile on his face, and he said so gently: "Okay, okay, it doesn't matter! I'm cold and hungry, and I feel dizzy for a while! It doesn't matter!" Although his face was covered with thick mud, the smile made everyone seem to see a gentle and fair face.

Everyone seemed moved. The middle-aged man holding the bowl of wine had already drank all the wine, his eyes were red, and he was crying now: "Come on, two taels!" When the wine arrived, the old coachman was already sitting on a chair against the wall. He was a little drunk, but he put the wine in front of the old coachman politely: "My invitation, you can drink it! I am also forty years old. To be honest, it is just a matter of making do with monthly payments. One year is a matter of one year, and the legs know it! In two or three years, I will be like you! You are [2]

Are you almost sixty? "

"You're still young, fifty-five!" The old coachman took a sip of wine. "It's cold and I can't sit in the seat. My stomach is empty. I drank wine for a few days, so I feel warmer! Walking here, I really can't hold on anymore and want to come in to get warm. It's too hot in the room and I haven't eaten, so I fainted. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! Thank you guys!"

At this time, the old man's gray hair like hay, mud on his face, hands like charcoal sticks, and the shabby hat and cotton-padded jacket all seemed to be shining with pure light, like the statues in the ruined temple. Although broken, they were still dignified. Everyone looked at him as if they were afraid he would leave. Xiangzi remained speechless and stood there blankly. When the old coachman said that his stomach was empty, he ran out quickly, and then ran back again, holding ten steamed buns stuffed with mutton on a cabbage leaf in his hand. He brought it to the old man's eyes and said: Eat it! Then, he sat down and lowered his head, as if he was very tired. "Hey!" The old man seemed to be happy or crying, nodding to everyone. "It's my brother after all! Hold the seat, no matter how hard you work for him, it's hard to ask for an extra penny before the end!" As he said this, he stood up and started to walk out.

"Eat!" Everyone shouted almost in unison.

"I asked Xiao Ma to go, my little grandson is watching the car outside!" "I'll go, you sit down!" said the middle-aged coachman, "You can't lose the car here, don't worry, the patrol cabin is just across the way." He opened the door a little and said: "Little Ma! Little Ma! Your grandfather told you to put the car here!"

The old man touched the bun several times with his hand, but never picked it up. As soon as Xiao Ma entered the door, he picked one up: "Little Ma, be good, here it is for you!" Xiao Ma was about twelve or thirteen years old, with a thin face and round clothes. His nose was red from the cold, with two strips of white snot hanging from his nose, and he wore a pair of broken ear hats on his ears. Standing next to the old man, he took the buns with his right hand, then automatically picked up another with his left hand, and took a bite on each one.

"Hey! Slowly!" The old man put one hand on his grandson's head, picked up a bun with the other, and slowly put it into his mouth. "Grandpa, just eat two, and it's all yours! After we finish eating, let's pack up the car and go home. If it's not so cold tomorrow, let's get out of the car earlier. Right, little horse?"

Xiao Maer nodded to the buns and sniffed: "Grandpa, please eat three, and the rest is mine. I'll take grandpa home later!" "No!" The old man smiled proudly at everyone: "Let's walk later, it's cold sitting in the car."

The old man finished his portion, drank the wine in his glass, and waited for the pony to finish the buns. He took out a rag, wiped his mouth, and nodded to everyone: "My son went to the army and never looked back; my wife——"

"Don't say that!" Xiao Ma'er's cheeks were as big as two peaches, and he kept eating and talking to stop Grandpa.

"It doesn't matter what you say! We are not outsiders!" Then he whispered to everyone: "The child is serious, not to mention how strong he is! My wife is also gone. We, father and son, live in this car. The car is broken, but it is our own, so we don't have to worry about the car every day. We earn more and less, and we, father and son, are struggling, helpless! Helpless!"

"Grandpa," Xiao Ma'er finished eating the buns and pulled on the old man's sleeve, "we still have to make a trip. We still don't have money to buy coal tomorrow morning! It's all you. Just now, the twenty-year-old pulled the back door, just follow me, and you won't go! There will be no coal tomorrow morning, let's see what you do!"

"If you have a way, grandpa will lend you five kilograms of briquettes on credit."

"Want some more firewood?"

"That's right! Good boy, let's eat; after eating, we should take a walk!" After saying that, the old man stood up, walked around in a circle and said to everyone: "Thank you for your help, brothers!" He reached out to pull the little horse, and the little horse stuffed the uneaten bun into his mouth. Some of them sat still, while others followed them out. Xiangzi was the first to follow. He wanted to see the car.

A very dilapidated car, the paint on the car panel has been cracked, the handlebars have been worn to reveal the wood grain, a broken lamp that makes a slight noise, and the poles of the carport are tied with hemp ropes. The pony found a match in his ear cap, struck it on the sole of his shoe, held it in his two little black hands, and lit the lamp. The old man spat into the palm of his hand, groaned, and picked up the handlebar, "See you tomorrow, buddies!"

Xiangzi stood blankly outside the door, looking at the old man, the young man and the broken car. The old man was talking as he walked, his voice rising and falling; the lights and shadows on the road were sometimes bright and sometimes dark. Xiangzi listened and watched, and felt a kind of discomfort in his heart that he had never felt before. In the little horse, he seemed to see his past; in the old man, he seemed to see his future! He had never let go of a piece of money easily, but now he felt very happy and bought ten buns for the old and the young. He didn't go back into the house until they were out of sight. Everyone started talking and laughing again, and he felt confused. After paying for the tea, he walked out again, pulled the car outside the cinema and waited for Mr. Cao.

It's so cold. There was some gray sand floating in the sky, and the wind seemed to be rushing on it. The stars were not very visible, only a few big ones were trembling slightly in the sky. There was no wind on the ground, but there was a cold air everywhere. There were several long cracks cracked by frost on the ruts. The soil was gray-white, as cold and as hard as ice. Xiangzi stood outside the cinema for a while, already feeling cold, but unwilling to go back to the teahouse. He wanted to think quietly by himself. The old man and the young man seemed to have shattered his best hope - the old man's car was his own! Since the first day he pulled a car, he decided to buy his own car, and he still works hard all day long for this goal; with his own car, he thought that he would have everything. Humph, look at that old man!

Isn't it because he wants to buy a car that he doesn't want Huniu? Buy a car, save money, and then marry a wife with nothing; hey, look at the pony! Having a son of his own may not be like that.

Thinking about it this way, it seems that there is no need to resist Huniu's threat; anyway, I can't jump out of the circle, what kind of girl can't I want? Besides, she might have brought a few cars with her, so why not enjoy the ready-made blessing for a few days! Once you have seen through yourself, there is no need to look down on others. Huniu is Huniu, so don’t say anything!

After the movie ended, he hurriedly put the water bottle in place and lit the lamp. He even took off his cotton-padded jacket, leaving only a small coat. He wanted to run away and forget everything. It wouldn't matter if he fell to his death!

[1]

Trouble means procrastinating.

[2]

Horizontally, that is, probably.

eleven

When Xiangzi thought of the old man and the pony, he gave up all hope and thought it would be fun one day at a time. Why would he grit his teeth and be hard on himself all the time? ! He seemed to understand that the fate of the poor was that the two ends of the date pit were pointed: it was lucky to avoid starving to death when he was young; it was difficult to avoid starving to death when he was old. Only the middle section is young and strong, not afraid of hunger, fatigue and hard work, and can still look like a human being. In this period, if you don't dare to do it when you should be happy, you are a complete fool; after passing this village, there will be no such shop! Thinking about it this way, he didn't even want to worry about Huniu.

When he saw the stuffy gourd jar, his mind changed again. No, you can’t just do it casually; you only have a few dozen yuan left to buy a car, so you can’t waste all your hard work; at least you can’t just throw away the little savings in the pot, it’s not easy to save it! We still have to take the right path, for sure! But, what about Huniu? There is still no way, I still have to worry about that hateful Twenty-Seven.

Worried to the point of being helpless, he hugged the earthen jar and muttered to himself: Do whatever you want, this money is mine anyway! No one can take it away! With this little money, Xiangzi is not afraid of anything! If I am anxious, I will stomp my feet and run. If I have money, my legs will move!

The street is getting more and more lively. Sugar melons for sacrifice to the kitchen stove are placed all over the street. Wherever you go, you can hear the sound of "come and chop the sugar". Xiangzi was originally looking forward to celebrating the New Year, but now he is not excited at all. The more chaotic the streets are, the tighter his heart is. The terrible twenty-seven is right in front of him! His eyes were sunken, and even the scar on his face was a little dark. While pulling the car, the street was so messy and the ground was so slippery, he had to be extra careful. Worrying and paying attention were mixed, and he felt that his energy was not enough. Thinking about this, he forgot about that. He was often startled, and his body was itchy like a child having prickly heat in the summer.

On the afternoon of the day of the memorial ceremony, the soft east wind brought dark clouds. The weather suddenly became warmer. When it was almost time to turn on the lanterns, the wind became lighter and sparse snowflakes fell from the sky. The sugar melon sellers were all in a hurry. The weather was warm and there were snowflakes. Everyone sprinkled white soil on the sugar, fearing that it would all stick to one place. The snowflakes fell a little and turned into small snow particles, which fell white to the ground with a soft sound. After seven o'clock, shops and people began to offer sacrifices to the stove. Dense light snow was caught in the shadows of the incense and cannons, adding a bit of a gloomy atmosphere to the bustle. People on the street looked a little anxious. Those on foot and in cars were all eager to go home to worship the gods, but the ground was slippery and they did not dare to walk. The candy vendors were eager to sell the goods for the festival, and they were shouting out of breath, which was shocking to hear.

It was about nine o'clock, and Xiangzi took Mr. Cao home from Xicheng. After passing the lively market section of Xidan Archway and heading east into Chang'an Street, the crowds gradually became sparse. There was a thin layer of snow on the flat asphalt road, which was a little dazzling by the street lights. Occasionally a car would pass by, its lights shining from a distance, and the small snow particles would shine a little yellow in the light, like thousands of gold sands sprinkled on it. Approaching the Xinhuamen area, the road was originally extremely wide, and the light snow made it even more eye-opening, and everything seemed more serious. "Chang'an Archway", the gate tower of Xinhua Gate, and the red wall of Nanhai are all wearing plain crowns, with red walls and red pillars, quietly showing the dignity of the old capital under the light. At this time, it seems that there are no residents in Peiping. It is just a jade palace with only some old pines silently catching the snowflakes. Xiangzi didn't have time to look at these beautiful scenery. When he saw the "Jade Road" in front of him, he just wanted to run home in one step. The straight, white, calm road seemed to keep his home in his mind. But he couldn't run fast. Although the snow on the ground was not thick, when he picked up his feet, a thick layer would stick to the soles of his shoes. When he stamped on it, it would stick to the soles again. Graupel grains are very small, but they are heavy and heavy. They are both heavy to the feet and blind to, so he cannot run very fast. It was not easy for snow particles to melt when they hit him. A thin layer had accumulated on his shoulders. Although it was nothing, it made him feel uncomfortable being wet. There are not many shops in this area, but the sound of cannons in the distance continues, and from time to time a double shot or five ghosts are fired in the black sky. Sparks scattered, and the sky became increasingly black, almost terrifying. He listened to the cannons and saw the sparks and darkness in the air, and he wanted to get home immediately. But he didn't dare to let go of his legs, it was awkward!

What made him even more unhappy was that starting from Xicheng, he felt like there was a bicycle following him. When we arrived at West Chang'an Street, the street became a little quieter, and we could feel the following behind us - the vehicles were rolling through the thin snow. Although the sound was not loud, it was noticeable. Xiangzi, like other rickshaw drivers, hates bicycles. Cars are nasty, but they make a lot of noise and can be avoided from a distance. The bicycle would get into any cracks it saw, and it would swing this way and that, making me dizzy just looking at it. It’s better to make sure you don’t make any mistakes when bringing something with you. If something goes wrong, it’s always the rickshaw driver’s fault. The patrolmen’s calculation is that the rickshaw driver is easier to deal with than the cyclist anyway, so it’s not the right one to send the rickshaw driver first. Several times, Xiangzi wanted to use the brakes to stop the car, causing him to fall behind him. But he didn't dare. The man pulling the cart had to endure his anger. Whenever he wanted to stamp his soles, he had to shout: "Stop!" When he arrived at Nanhai Qianmen, the street was so wide, and the bicycle was still following closely behind. Xiangzi got even more angry. He deliberately stopped the car and dusted off the snow on his body. He stood still, and the bicycle passed by the car. The people in the car also looked back. Xiangzi deliberately bothered him and waited until the bicycle was far away before he picked up the handlebar and cursed: "I hate it!" Mr. Cao's "humanism" made him unwilling to put up the cotton shed to protect the wind. Even the canvas shed was not allowed to be put up until heavy rain, in order to teach the driver to save some energy. With this light snowfall, he thought there was no need to set up a carport, and besides, he wanted to see the snow scene at night. He also noticed the bicycle. After Xiangzi finished cursing, he whispered, "If he keeps following you, don't stop at the door of your house. Go to Mr. Zuo's place at Huanghuamen; don't panic!"

Xiangzi was a little panicked. He only knew that riding a bicycle was annoying, but he didn't know that there was something scary about it - since Mr. Cao didn't dare to go home, this guy must have a great background! After running for dozens of steps, he caught up with the man; he was deliberately waiting for him and Mr. Cao. The bicycle passed to Xiangzi, and Xiangzi glanced at the people on the bicycle. It was clear at a glance that he was on the detective team. He often met people from the team in teahouses. Although he never spoke to them, he knew their looks and dress. This person's outfit looked familiar to him: big green coat, woolen hat, worn very low.

When he arrived at the intersection of Nanchang Street, Xiangzi took advantage of the opportunity to turn a corner and glanced back. The man was still following him. He almost forgot about the snow on the ground and stepped harder on his feet. The long, straight and white road has only some cold lights, and a detective is chasing behind it! Xiangzi had never had this kind of experience, and he was sweating. When he arrived at the back gate of the park, he turned around and still followed! When he arrived at the door of his house, he didn't dare to stop, and he was a little reluctant to leave. Mr. Cao didn't say a word, so he had to continue running north. I ran to the north exit in a hurry, and the bicycle was still following me! He entered the alley and followed him! Out of the alley, still following! When he went to Huanghuamen, he shouldn't have entered the alley. It wasn't until he reached the north entrance of the alley that he realized it. He admitted that he was a little lost and became even more angry. After running behind Jingshan, the bicycle headed north to the back door. Xiangzi wiped his sweat. The snow is lighter, but there are a few more snowflakes among the snow particles. Xiangzi seemed to like snowflakes, flying freely in the air, not as annoying as snow particles. He turned around and asked: "Where are you going, sir?"

"Go back to Zuozhai. Someone asked you about me, but you said you don't know me!"

"Yes!" Xiangzi was excited in his heart, but he couldn't ask in detail.

When they arrived at Zuo's house, Mr. Cao asked Xiangzi to pull the car in and quickly close the door. Mr. Cao was still calm, but he didn't look very good. After giving instructions to Xiangzi, he walked in. As soon as Xiangzi pulled the car into the doorway and put it away, Mr. Cao came out again, accompanied by Mr. Zuo. Xiangzi knew Mr. Zuo and knew that Mr. Zuo was a good friend of the house. "Xiangzi," Mr. Cao's mouth moved quickly, "You go back by car. Tell your wife I'm here. Teach them to come too, come by car, and call another one. You don't have to teach the car you took to wait. Understand? Okay! Tell your wife to bring the application things and the paintings in the study. Do you understand? I'm calling my wife right now to tell you again, in case she gets anxious and forgets what I said, so you can remind her."

"Can I go?" Mr. Zuo asked.

"No! That person just now may not be a detective, but I have something going on in my mind, so I have to be on guard. Can you call a car first?" Mr. Zuo went to call for a car. Mr. Cao told Xiangzi again: "When the car comes, I gave you the money. Teach the wife to pack her things quickly; it doesn't matter anything else, just be sure to take the children's things, and the few paintings in the study, those paintings! When the wife has finished packing, teach Gao Ma to call for a car and come here. Do you understand this? After they leave, you lock the door and move to the study to sleep. There is a phone there. Can you make phone calls?"

"I won't make outgoing calls, but I will answer them." In fact, Xiangzi didn't like connecting on the phone, but he didn't want to make Mr. Cao anxious, so he had to agree.

"That's okay!" Mr. Cao continued, speaking very quickly: "If there is any movement, don't open the door! We have all left, and you are the only one left. They will never let you go! If things go wrong, you turn off the light, jump to the backyard and jump to the Wang family. Do you know the Wang family? Yes! Hide in the Wang family for a while before leaving. My things , don’t worry about your own things, just jump over the wall, so I don’t have to take it away from you! If you lose something, I’ll pay for it in the future. Okay, I’ll call my wife, and you’ll tell her again later. Don’t worry, the guy on the bike just now may be a detective, or he may not be.”

Xiangzi was very confused and seemed to have many questions to ask, but because he was eager to remember what Mr. Cao had told him, he did not dare to ask any more questions.

The car came, and Xiangzi got in with a dazed look on his face. The snow was falling moderately, and the things outside the car could not be seen clearly. He sat with his back straight, his head almost touching the carport. He wanted to think about it, but his eyes were only focused on the red arrow in front of the car, which was so bright and cute. The small brush in front of the driver automatically moves left and right to brush away the breath on the glass, which is also quite interesting. Just now he seemed tired of seeing this, the car had arrived at the door of his house, and he got out of the car feeling strange.

Just as he was about to ring the electric bell at the street door, someone seemed to come out of the wall and grabbed his wrist. Xiangzi instinctively wanted to grab his hand, but he had already seen the person clearly and stopped moving. It was the detective who was riding the bicycle just now.

"Xiangzi, don't you recognize me?" The detective smiled and let go.

Xiangzi took a breath and didn't know what to say.

"Don't you remember when you taught us to pull us to Xishan? I am that Platoon Commander Sun. Do you remember?"

"Ah, Platoon Leader Sun!" Xiangzi couldn't remember. When he was dragged up the mountain by the soldiers, he didn't care who was the platoon commander or the company commander.

"You don't remember me, but I remember you; the scar on your face is a good mark. I just followed you for a long time, and I was a little afraid to recognize you at first. I looked left and right, and there can't be anything wrong with this scar!"

"Is something wrong?" Xiangzi went to ring the bell again.

"Of course there's something going on, and it's important! Let's go in and talk about it, okay?" Platoon Leader Sun - now a detective - reached out and rang the bell.

"I have something to do!" Xiangzi's head suddenly broke out in sweat, and he said fiercely in his heart: "It's not enough to hide from him, how can I invite him in?"

"Don't worry, I'm here for your own good!" the detective showed a sly smile. When Gao Ma opened the door, he stepped in and said, "Excuse me!" Before Xiangzi could say a word to Gao Ma, he pulled him inside and pointed at the concierge: "Do you live here?" After entering the house, he looked around and said, "The house is quite clean! You're not bad at all!"

"Is something wrong? I'm busy!" Xiangzi couldn't listen to these idle questions anymore. "Didn't I tell you? It's important!" Detective Sun was still smiling, but his tone was very stern. "Let me tell you, the guy named Cao is a traitor. If you catch him, he will be shot. He still can't run away! We finally have acquaintance, and you served me in the barracks. Besides, we are both people on the street, so I have to bear a big punishment to send you a message! If you run away a step late, you will be stuck in the nest when you come back, and no one can run away. We work hard to eat, how can we file a wrongful lawsuit with them? Is this right?"

"I'm sorry!" Xiangzi was still thinking about Mr. Cao's instructions. "Who are you sorry for?" Detective Sun had a smile on his lips and angular eyes. "They caused the trouble themselves, who are you sorry for? They dared to take responsibility, and we have to suffer, so we can't get along! Needless to say, I will lock you up for three months. You are used to it like a wild bird, and I will make you sit in a dark room. Can you bear it? Besides, they are in jail and have money to support them, so they can't bear the pain; you, my good brother, if you don't have a hard hand, you must be tied to a urine bucket! This It’s a small matter, but if they spend money to carry out a campaign, they will be sentenced to several years in prison. If they can’t explain it to the officials, it will be strange if we don’t offend anyone. Is it unfair to go to the bridge to eat black dates? You are a sensible person, and you can’t bear the consequences. Let me tell you, good brother, there is no such thing as our miserable brothers!”

Xiangzi was frightened. Thinking of the pain of being dragged away by the soldiers, he would imagine what it would be like to be imprisoned. "Then I have to go and leave them alone?"

"You care about them, who cares about you?!"

Xiangzi had no answer. After being stunned for a while, even his conscience nodded: "Okay, I'm leaving!"

"Are you leaving just like that?" Detective Sun sneered.

Xiangzi lost his head again.

"Xiangzi, my good friend! You are so stupid! As a detective, am I willing to let you go?"

"Then -" Xiangzi was so anxious that he didn't know what to say.

"Don't pretend to be stupid!" Detective Sun stared at Xiangzi's eyes: "Maybe you also have some savings, use it to buy a life! I don't earn as much as you do in a month, so I have to eat, clothe and support the family, so I just rely on outsiders to talk to you! Think about it, I can I can’t let you go with a slap in the face. Friendship is friendship. Can I come to persuade you if there is no friendship? But things are things. I don’t want to do anything. I don’t need to talk to people outside. "

"How much?" Xiangzi sat on the bed.

"You get as much as you want, the price is determined!"

"I'm waiting to go to jail!"

"Is this what you said? Don't regret it?" Detective Sun put his hand into his cotton robe, "Look at this, Xiangzi! I can take you right away. If you resist arrest, I will shoot! I will take you away right away, don't say anything Money, even your clothes have to be peeled off as soon as you enter the prison gate. You are a sensible person, you can do it yourself! "If you have time to squeeze me, why not squeeze Mr. Cao?" Xiangzi said after a long time.

"That's the real criminal. If you catch it, there will be a reward. If you can't hold it, it's not. You, you, my stupid brother, letting you go is like a fart; killing you is like wiping a bug! Take the money, you go your own way; if you don't take it, okay, see you on the overpass! Don't bother. Come on, you’re such a big man! Besides, I can’t afford this money all by myself. The guys have to give me some help. How much money do you have to pay for it? How much money do you have?”

Xiangzi stood up, his mind jumped so high, and he clenched his fists.

"It's none of your business. Let me tell you first. There are a lot of people outside! Hurry up and get the money! I'm looking for a face, so don't be ungrateful!" Detective Sun's eyes were very ugly.

"Who did I offend?" Xiangzi said with a crying voice and sat on the edge of the bed again. "You didn't trick anyone; you just hit the spot! People are born rich, and we are all born from the bottom. Don't say anything anymore!" Detective Sun shook his head, as if with infinite emotion. "Come on, consider it my fault that I have wronged you, don't bother me anymore!"

Xiangzi thought for a while, but there was nothing he could do. His hands were trembling as he took the stuffed gourd jar out of the quilt.

"Let me take a look!" Detective Sun smiled, took the jar and touched it against the wall.

Xiangzi's heart burst when he saw the money scattered on the ground.

"That's it?"

Xiangzi didn't make a sound, only trembling.

"Forget it! I won't kill them all, friends are friends. You must also know that it is cheap to buy a life with this money!"

Xiangzi didn't say anything yet, he was shivering and trying to wrap himself up in blankets.

"Then don't move!"

"It's so cold..." Xiangzi's eyes became angry.

"I told you not to move, just don't move! Get out!"

Xiangzi swallowed, bit his lip, opened the door and walked out.

The snow had fallen more than an inch, and Xiangzi walked with his head down. Everything is white except for some big black footprints behind him.

twelve

Xiangzi wanted to find a place to sit down and think over everything, even if he could only cry once after thinking about it, he would know what he was crying about; things were changing so fast that his brain could no longer catch up. There was no place for him to sit, and there was snow everywhere. The doors of the small teahouses were all closed, and it was past ten o'clock; even if they were open, he would not go in. He would rather find a quiet place, knowing that the tears in his eyes could fall at any time. Since there is no place to sit, I have to walk slowly; but where to go? In this silvery world, there is no place for him to sit down, and no place for him to go; in this vast white world, only hungry birds and desperate people know what it means to lament.

Where to go? This has become a problem, so don’t think of anything else! Going to a small shop? no! With his clothes, he could lose something in the middle of the night, not to mention how terrible the lice in the store were. Go to a bigger store? He couldn't afford to go, he only had five dollars in hand, and it was his entire property. Going to the bathhouse? Come to the door at twelve o'clock, you can't stay overnight. Nowhere to go.

Because I had nowhere to go, I felt more and more embarrassed. After living in the city for several years, all I have left is a pair of clothes and five yuan; even the bedding is gone! From this, he thought about tomorrow, what should he do tomorrow? Pulling a car, and then pulling a car, huh, the result of pulling a car is that I can't find a place to live, and I just have some money left and it is robbed by others! For a small business, the capital is only five yuan, and even the carrying poles have to be bought immediately. Besides, which business can definitely earn a profit? Pulling a cart can be done on flat ground for only thirty to forty cents, but small business requires capital and there is no hope of earning three meals a day. After all the capital is invested, and then you go to pull the car, why don't you take off your pants and fart, and lose five yuan in vain? You can't let go of these five dollars easily. This is your last hope! When you are a servant, you are not good at it: you are not good at serving people; you are not good at washing clothes and cooking! I can't do anything, I can't do anything, I'm just a stupid, black and thick piece of trash!

Unknowingly, he came to Zhonghai. When we got to the bridge, the left and right sides were empty, and everything we could see was covered with snowflakes. Only then did he seem to realize that the snow had not settled yet. He touched his head and found that the woolen hat was already very wet. There was no one on the bridge, not even the policeman was hiding. A few electric lights were covered in snowflakes and seemed to blink uncontrollably. Xiangzi looked at the snow outside and felt confused.

He stood on the bridge for a long time, and the world seemed to have died, without any sound or movement. The gray snowflakes seemed to have had a chance, falling in a panic and briskly, trying to bury the world without anyone noticing. In this silence, Xiangzi heard the whispers of his conscience. Don't worry about yourself first, you still have to go back and see the Cao family first. Only Mrs. Cao and Gao Ma were left, not a single man! Wasn't the last five yuan given by Mr. Cao? Not daring to think anymore, he picked up his legs and walked back very quickly.

There were some footprints outside the door, and there were two newly marked car lanes on the road. Could it be that Mrs. Cao has left? Why didn't the man named Sun take them?

I didn't dare to go over and push the door open, for fear of being caught again. Looking around, there was no one. His heart beat fast. Let's give it a try. He was homeless anyway. If he was caught, he would be caught. I pushed the door gently, but it was open. After walking two steps along the wall, I saw the light in my own house, my own house! He wants to cry. I bent down and walked over, went to the window and listened. There was a cough in the room, Gao Ma's voice! He opened the door. "Who? Oh, you! You scared me to death!" Gao Ma covered her heart, composed herself, and sat on the bed. "Xiangzi, what's going on?"

Xiangzi couldn't answer, he just felt like he hadn't seen her for many years, and there was a ball of heat in his heart.

"What's going on?" Gao Ma asked as if she was about to cry: "You haven't come back yet. My husband called us and asked us to go to the left house. He also said that you would be here right away. When you came, didn't I open the door for you? When I saw that you were with a stranger, I said nothing and hurried in to help my wife pack things. You never went in. In the dark, I taught my wife and I to scratch around. The young master was already sleeping soundly. I wrapped my bag and went to the study to pick up the paintings. What's wrong with you? I asked you! I came out to see you, okay, you're gone! My wife was so angry that I had to call for a taxi. Okay, my wife and I were trembling.

, I said, madam, let’s go, I watched. When Xiangzi comes back, I will rush to Zuozhai immediately; if he doesn’t come back, I will accept my fate! How could you say this! What's the matter with you? Tell me! "

Xiangzi said nothing.

"Speak! Is it alright to just stand there in a daze? What's going on?"

"Let's go!" Xiangzi finally found a sentence: "Let's go!" "Are you looking after the house?" Gao Ma's anger subsided a little.

"When you meet sir, you say, the detective caught me, but, but, he didn't catch me!"

"What kind of words does this sound like?" Gao Ma was so angry that she almost laughed.

"Listen!" Xiangzi gasped: "Tell sir, run away. The detective said, we can definitely catch him. The left house is not a safe place either. Run! Now that you're gone, I'll jump to Wang's house and sleep overnight. I'll lock the door here. Tomorrow, I'll go find my business. I'm sorry, Mr. Cao!"

"The more you talk, the more confused I become!" Gao Ma sighed. "Come on, let me go. The young master may still be cold, so hurry up and take a look! When I see the husband, I will tell him what Xiangzi said and teach him to run quickly. Tonight Xiangzi locks the door and jumps to Wang's house to sleep; tomorrow he will go find trouble. Isn't that what it is?"

Xiangzi nodded with great shame.

After Gao Ma left, Xiangzi locked the door and returned to the house. The broken gourd jar was still thrown on the ground. He picked up a tile, looked at it, and threw it on the ground as before. The bedding on the bed was not moved. Strange, what is going on? Is Detective Sun not a real detective? cannot! If Mr. Cao didn't see any danger, why would he abandon his home and run away? not understand! not understand! He sat on the edge of the bed unconsciously. As soon as he sat down, he stood up again as if he was shocked. Can't stop here for long! What if the man named Sun comes back again? ! My mind was spinning very fast: I'm sorry for Mr. Cao, but Gao Ma brought back a letter to teach him to run quickly, so it was okay. In terms of conscience, Xiangzi did not intend to deceive others, and he was wronged himself. My own money is lost first, so I can no longer care about Mr. Cao's. Talking to himself, he picked up and packed his clothes while chatting like this.

He picked up his bedding, turned off the lights, and ran to the backyard. He put down his bedding, grabbed the wall with his hands and shouted in a low voice: "Old Cheng! Old Cheng!" Old Cheng is the Wang family's coachman. No one agreed, so Xiangzi made up his mind to jump over first. Throwing the bedding over, it fell on the snow without making any sound. His heart skipped a beat. Then he climbed up the wall and jumped over. Picking up the bedding on the snow, he quietly went to find Lao Cheng. He knows where Lao Cheng is. Everyone seemed to have gone to sleep, and there was no sound in the whole hospital. Xiangzi suddenly felt that it was not difficult to be a thief. He gained some courage and walked down-to-earth. The snow was very solid and made a little noise. After finding Lao Cheng's house, he coughed. Lao Cheng seemed to have just laid down: "Who?"

"I, Xiangzi! Open the door!" Xiangzi said very naturally and softly, as if he heard Lao Cheng's voice, like hearing the comfort of a relative. Lao Cheng turned on the light, put on a ragged fur coat, and opened the door: "What's the matter? Xiangzi! It's midnight!"

Xiangzi went in, put the bedding on the ground, sat down on it, and said nothing.

Lao Cheng was in his thirties, and the flesh on his face and body was all lumpy and hard. On weekdays, Xiangzi didn't have much friendship with him. They just nodded and talked when they met. Sometimes, Mrs. Wang and Mrs. Cao went out to the streets together, and they had the opportunity to drink tea and rest together. Xiangzi admired Lao Cheng very much. Lao Cheng ran very fast, but he was in a panic and couldn't hold the handlebars firmly. Although Lao Cheng was quite good as a person, Xiangzi could not fully admire him due to this shortcoming.

Today, Xiangzi thinks Lao Cheng is completely cute. Sitting there, I couldn't say anything, but I felt grateful and affectionate. Just now, he was standing on the bridge in Zhonghai; now, he was sitting in the house with an acquaintance; the sudden change made his heart feel empty and at the same time, he felt a little warm.

Lao Cheng got under the quilt again, pointed to the ragged leather jacket and said, "Xiangzi, you can smoke, there is one in your pocket, Bieye." The Villa brand cigarettes have been changed to "Bieye" by the coachmen since they were born.

Xiangzi didn't smoke, but it seemed he couldn't refuse this time. He took a cigarette and put it between his lips and smoked it.

"What happened?" Lao Cheng asked, "Quited your job?"

"No," Xiangzi was still sitting on the bed, "there was trouble! Mr. Cao's family has all run away, and I don't dare to look after the house alone!"

"What's the trouble?" Lao Cheng sat up again.

"I can't tell. Anyway, there was quite a mess. Even Gao Ma left!"

"The four doors are wide open and no one cares?"

"I locked the door!"

"Hmph!" Lao Cheng pondered for a long time, "Can I tell Mr. Wang to go ahead?" He said and started to put on his clothes.

"Let's talk about it tomorrow, it's hard to explain the matter!" Xiangzi was afraid that Mr. Wang would question him.

The thing that Xiangzi couldn't explain was this: what hours does Mr. Cao teach at a university? There is a student named Ruan Ming in the school who has always been good to Mr. Cao and often comes to talk to him. Mr. Cao is a socialist, and Ruan Ming’s thoughts are more intense, so the two get along very well. However, their age and status caused a slight conflict between them: Mr. Cao, from the perspective of a teacher, should teach with all his heart, while students should hand over their homework well and not be careless about their grades because of personal feelings. In Ruan Ming's view, in this chaotic world, an ambitious young man should engage in some revolutionary undertakings, regardless of whether his homework is good or bad. He interacts with Mr. Cao, firstly because he can still get along with each other, and secondly because he hopes that because of his relationship, he can get enough grades to upgrade, no matter how bad his test scores are. People with ideals in troubled times are often scoundrels, and there are many forgivable examples in history.

When it came time to take the exam, Mr. Cao did not give Ruan Ming a passing grade. Ruan Ming's grades, even if Mr. Cao gave him a passing grade, were enough to get him suspended from school. But he particularly hates Mr. Cao. He thought Mr. Cao didn't understand face too much; face has the same value as revolution in China. Because he was eager to do something, Ruan Ming despised learning. Because I despise learning, I slowly get used to laziness, and want to gain everyone's admiration and love without any effort; no matter what, my thoughts are progressing! Mr. Cao didn't give him a passing grade. He clearly didn't understand an aspiring young man. So, don't get close to each other on weekdays! Since he had a good friendship with him on weekdays, but was embarrassed during the exam, he thought Mr. Cao was insidious. His grades were irreparable, and he couldn't resist even if he was suspended from school. He wanted to vent his anger on Mr. Cao. Since I have lost my studies, I will ask a teacher to accompany me. In this way, it can be a bit artificial and show off one's own power. Ruan Ming is not someone to be trifled with! Besides, if you can break into a new group through this incident, it's better than having nothing to do.

He edited what Mr. Cao said in the lecture hall and what he chatted with him about political and social issues on weekdays, and went to the party headquarters to report that Mr. Cao was promoting radical ideas among young people.

Mr. Cao also heard about it, but he thought it was funny. He knew how incomplete his socialism was, and how his traditional art interests hindered radical action. Ridiculous, he actually got the title of revolutionary mentor! It was ridiculous, so he didn't pay much attention to it, even though his students and colleagues told him to be careful. Calmness does not - in troubled times - guarantee safety. Winter break is a good opportunity to clear out the school, and detectives get busy investigating and making arrests. Mr. Cao has felt someone following him several times. The figure behind him changed his expression from playful to serious. He needs to think about it: this is a good opportunity to build a reputation; spending a few days in jail is less troublesome and safer than setting off a bomb, and has the same value. Going to jail is a qualification for being an important person. However, he refused. He refused to use any means to create a false reputation for himself. Based on his conscience, he hated that he could not become a warrior; based on his conscience, he also refused to be a fake warrior. He went to Mr. Zuo. Mr. Zuo had an idea: "When necessary, move to my place and they won't search me!" Mr. Zuo knows people; people are more powerful than the law. "You come here to stay for a few days and hide away. Finally, we are afraid of them. Then we can clear it out, which may cost a couple of dollars. If you have enough face and money, you will be fine if you go home."

Detective Sun knew that Mr. Cao often went to the left house, and he also knew that he would definitely go to the left house when he was caught up. They did not dare to offend Mr. Zuo, but had to scare Mr. Cao. Let's drive him to the left house, so that they can hope to get money, and it will be very respectable. Knocking on Xiangzi was not part of the detectives' plan, but since they saw Xiangzi and took charge of the job, why not pick up the pieces first?

By the way, Xiangzi met a "point" and deserved it. Everyone has a way, there are gaps everywhere, only Xiangzi can't run away, because he is a cart puller. A cart puller swallows coarse grains, and what comes out is blood; he has to exert his greatest strength and get the lowest reward; he has to stand at the lowest point in the world, waiting for the blows of all people, all laws, and all hardships.

After burning a cigarette, Xiangzi still couldn't figure out the reason. He was like a chicken being held in the hands of a cook. He just wanted to take a breath and had no other ideas. He was very willing to talk to Lao Cheng, but he had nothing to say. His words were not enough to express his thoughts. He had experienced all the hardships, and his mouth could not open, like a mute. If you buy a car, the car is lost; if you save money, the money is lost; all your efforts are only for others to bully you! No one dared to provoke him, even a wild dog had to hide away, and he was still bullied until he was angry! Don't think about the past now, what about tomorrow? I can’t go back to Cao’s house, so where can I go? "I'll sleep here for the night, okay?" he asked, as if a wild dog had found a sheltered corner and would tolerate it for a while; but even this matter had to be understood clearly to see if it would hinder others.

"You can stay right here. Where can you go in the snow and ice? Is the ground okay? You can come up and squeeze in!"

Xiangzi refused to go up and squeeze, so the ground was fine.

When Lao Cheng fell asleep, Xiangzi tossed back and forth and still couldn't fall asleep. The cold air on the ground soon turned the mattress as cold as iron. He curled up his legs, and his calves seemed to be cramped. The cool breeze that came in through the crack in the door pricked my head like a bunch of tiny needles. He closed his eyes tightly and covered his head, unable to sleep. Hearing Lao Cheng's cry, he felt impatient and wished he could stand up and give Lao Cheng a good beating. It was getting colder and colder, making my throat itchy from the cold, and I was afraid of waking up Lao Cheng with a cough.

Unable to sleep, he really wanted to get up secretly and visit Cao's house again. Anyway, the matter has been blown, and there is no one in the courtyard, why not go and get a few things? The few money that I had saved so hard was robbed by others because of Cao Zhai's affairs. Why not steal something. If you lose money because of Cao Zhai's affairs, wouldn't it be appropriate for Cao Zhai to pay for it? Thinking of this, his eyes lit up and he immediately forgot about the cold; let's go! It’s so hard to get money, lost, and it’s so easy to get it back, let’s go!

He had already sat up and hurriedly lay down again, as if Lao Cheng was looking at him! My heart jumped. No, you can't be a thief, no! I just took off my clothes and failed to do what Mr. Cao asked me to do, which is a shame. How can I steal from him again? Can't go! If you die poor, don’t steal!

How do you know others won't steal it? Who knows that the man named Sun took something? He sat up again. A dog barked in the distance. He lay down again. Still can't go, others will steal, just steal, your own conscience is clear. I am so poor that I can’t let myself have so many dark spots in my heart!

Besides, Gao Ma knows that when he comes to Wang's house, if something is lost at night, it must be him, or it must be him if it's not him! Not only did he refuse to steal it, he was also afraid that others would get in. If you really lose something this night, you won’t be able to wash it off even if you jump into the Yellow River! He wasn't cold anymore, but his palms were a little sweaty. What to do? Jump back to the house and watch? Don't dare. Your life was bought with money, you can no longer throw yourself into a trap. If you don’t go, what if you lose something?

Can't think of an idea. He sat up again, with his legs hunched over, his head almost touching his knees. My head feels heavy and I want to close my eyes, but I dare not sleep. The night was so long that there was no time for Xiangzi to close his eyes.

I sat there for an unknown amount of time and changed my mind countless times. Suddenly his heart lit up, and he stretched out his hand to push Lao Cheng: "Lao Cheng! Lao Cheng! Wake up!"

"What are you doing?" Lao Cheng was very reluctant to open his eyes: "Pee, there is a chamber pot under the bed."

"Wake up! Turn on the lights!"

"What's the matter with a thief?" Old Cheng sat up in a daze.

"Are you awake?"

"Um!"

"Old Cheng, look at it! This is my bedding, these are my clothes, and these are the five yuan given by Mr. Cao. Is there nothing else?"

"No, what are you doing?" Lao Cheng yawned.

"Are you aware? These are the things I have. I didn't take anything from the Cao family?"

"No! My brothers, we have been living in the house for a long time, and our hands are sticky, how about it? If you can do it, do it; if you can't do it, don't do it; you can't take other people's things! Is this the problem?"

"Do you understand?"

Lao Cheng smiled: "That's right! I said, aren't you cold?"

"OK!"

[1]

A cross-stroke across the bridge of the nose is guaranteed.

Thirteen

Because of the snow light, the sky seemed to light up earlier. As the end of the year approaches, many people buy chickens and feed them, and the chickens crow several times more than before. Roosters crow everywhere, and there is a lot of auspicious snow in a good year. Xiangzi didn't sleep well all night. In the second half of the night, he endured several naps, feeling dazed and sleepless, rising and falling like floating on water, feeling uneasy. The more he slept, the colder he got. He heard the crow of chickens everywhere, and he couldn't hold on any longer. Not wanting to disturb Lao Cheng, he curled up his legs, covered his mouth with the quilt and coughed, not daring to get up. I endured and waited, feeling very anxious. After finally waiting until daybreak, the sound of cart wheels and the shouts of the driver could be heard on the street, and he sat up. It was cold even sitting down, so he stood up, fastened the buttons, opened the door a little and looked outside. The snow was not that thick, and it probably stopped falling in the middle of the night. The sky seemed to be clear, but it was so gray that it was hard to see clearly, and even there was a very light gray shadow on the snow. At a glance, he saw the big footprints he left last night. Although they were buried in snow again, the pits were still very real.

Firstly because he had something to do, and secondly because he wanted to eliminate traces of the snow. Without saying a word, he fumbled for a broom in the corner of the room and went to sweep away the snow. The snow was heavy and difficult to sweep, and he couldn't find a big bamboo broom for a while. He bent down very low and scraped hard. When the upper layer was swept away, some snow particles remained close to the ground, as if they had grasped the ground. After straightening his back twice, he swept the entire outer courtyard and piled all the snow under the two small willow trees. He was a little sweaty, warm, and relaxed. Stomping his feet, he took a long breath, which was very long and white.

Entering the house and putting the broom in its place, he wanted to pack up his bed. Lao Cheng woke up and yawned. Before he could finish speaking, he spoke with his hands, "Isn't it early?" His tone was very complicated. After saying that, he wiped his tears and took out a cigarette from his leather jacket pocket. After taking two puffs of cigarette, he finally woke up. "Xiangzi, don't leave yet! Wait for me to get some boiling water, and let's have a hot pot of tea. This night will be enough for you!"

"Shall I go?" Xiangzi also expressed his kindness. However, as soon as he said it, he remembered the horror of last night, and his heart suddenly became clogged.

"No; I'm going! I still have to treat you!" With that, Lao Cheng quickly put on his clothes, leaving all the buttons unbuttoned. He only put a sack on his ragged leather jacket and ran out with a cigarette in his mouth: "Hey! The yard has been swept? You really can do it! Please treat you!" Xiangzi felt a little happier.

After a while, Lao Cheng came back, carrying two large bowls of sweet porridge, as well as countless water chestnut pancakes and small fried fried ghosts. "I haven't made tea, let's have some porridge first, come on, eat it; if it's not enough, go buy it; if you don't have money, we can get it on credit; do the hard work, just don't pout, come on!"

The sky was completely bright, and the room was deserted and bright. The two of them held the bowls and drank, the sound was loud and sweet. No one said anything, and they ate all the sesame cakes and fried dough sticks in one go. "How?" Lao Cheng picked a sesame on his teeth.

"It's time to go!" Xiangzi looked at the bedroll on the ground.

"Tell me, I still don't understand what's going on!" Lao Cheng handed Xiangzi a cigarette, and Xiangzi shook his head.

After thinking about it, Xiangzi was embarrassed not to tell Lao Cheng everything. Stuttering, he told what happened last night. Although it was very laborious, it was not incomplete.

Lao Cheng curled his lips for a long time, seeming to think of something interesting. "In my opinion, you should go find Mr. Cao. The matter can't be left alone, and the money can't be lost like this! Didn't you just say that Mr. Cao told you to run away if something goes wrong? Then, who is to blame when you teach the detective to stop you as soon as you get out of the car? It's not that you are unfaithful, but that the matter is too evil, and you can't help but look after yourself first. Let me see, there is nothing wrong with this. Go and tell Mr. Cao everything. I think he will not blame you, and he will pay for it by chance! Go ahead, put your bed here, and go to him as soon as the sun comes out."

Xiangzi felt relieved and felt a little sorry for Mr. Cao, but what Lao Cheng said was very reasonable - how could the detective block himself with a gun and still care about the Cao family's affairs? "Let's go!" Lao Cheng urged again. "I think you were a little confused last night; no one can keep their head off when something urgent happens. The advice I'm giving you now is definitely good. I'm older than you, so I've always been through more things. Let's go, isn't the sun shining?"

A little light from the morning sun, through the snow, has illuminated the whole city. The sky is blue, the snow is white, there is light in the sky, there is light on the snow, and a golden flower flashes between the blue and white, which makes people so happy that they can't open their eyes! Just as Xiangzi was about to leave, someone knocked on the door. Lao Cheng went out to take a look and called out from the doorway: "Xiangzi! I'm looking for you!"

Wang Er from the left house, his nose dripping with cold water, stomped the snow off his feet in the doorway. When Lao Cheng saw Xiangzi coming out, he said, "Sit inside!" The three of them came to the house together.

"What's that?" Wang Er rubbed his hands and said, "I'm here to see the house. How do I get in? The door is locked. What's that? It's cold after the snow. It's so cold! What's that? Mr. Cao and Mrs. Cao left early in the morning to go to Tianjin, maybe Shanghai, I can't tell. Mr. Zuo asked me to come and see the house. What's that? It's so cold!"

Xiangzi suddenly wanted to cry! Just when I was about to follow Lao Cheng's advice and go find Mr. Cao, Mr. Cao would leave. After being stunned for a long time, he asked: "Mr. Cao didn't say anything about me?"

"What the hell, no. We all got up before dawn, and couldn't even think about talking. The train is, what, it leaves at 7:40! So what, how do I get across that courtyard?" Wang Er was eager to get there.

"Jump over!" Xiangzi glanced at Lao Cheng, as if handing Wang Er to Lao Cheng, and he picked up his bedroll.

"Where are you going?" Lao Cheng asked.

"There is no other place for people and factories to go!" This sentence expressed the grievance, shame and helplessness in Xiangzi's heart. He had no choice but to surrender! All roads were sealed, and he could only look for the black tower-like tiger girl on the snow-white ground. He cares about dignity, strength, loyalty, and loyalty; all of them are of no use because he has a "dog" life!

Lao Cheng took it and said, "You can go your own way. This is not in front of Wang Er. You haven't touched a single plant or tree in Cao's house! Let's go. When you come to this street, come in and have a chat. Maybe I can find out something good and recommend it to you. After you leave, I will send Wang Er over there. Is there any coal?"

"Coal and firewood are all in the hut in the backyard." Xiangzi carried the bedding.

The snow on the street is no longer so white, and the snow on the road has been rolled down by the wheels, revealing a bit of ice color. On the dirt road, the ground was blackened and whitened by horses, which was a pity. Xiangzi didn't think anything, just carried the bedding and walked forward. Went to Renhe Depot in one breath. He didn't dare to stop. Once he stopped, he knew he wouldn't have the courage to go in. He kept walking in, his face burning with heat. He made up a sentence to say to Huniu: "I'm here, let's see what happens! It doesn't matter what you do, I can't do anything!" When he saw her, he repeated this sentence in his heart several times, but he still couldn't say it out, because his mouth was not so convenient.

Huniu had just gotten up, her hair was in a moustache, her eyelids were swollen, and her dark face was covered with a layer of white goosebumps, like a frozen chicken with its hair plucked off.

"Yo! You're back!" It was very affectionate, and her eyes shone with laughter. "Lease me a car!" Xiangzi lowered his head and looked at the snow that had not melted away on the toes of his shoes.

"Talk to the old man." She whispered, and after speaking, she pursed her lips towards Dongjian.

Mr. Liu was drinking tea in the room. There was a large white stove in front of him, with a flame more than half a foot high. Seeing Xiangzi come in, he said with half annoyance and half smile: "How are you still alive?! You forgot about me! Calculate, how many days have you not been here? How are things going? Have you bought a car?"

Xiangzi shook his head, feeling a stabbing pain in his heart. "You still have to give me a car to pull you, Fourth Master!"

"Hmph, it's blown again! Okay, go pick one for yourself!" Fourth Master Liu poured a bowl of tea, "Here, have a bowl first."

Xiangzi picked up the bowl, stood in front of the stove, and drank heavily. The tea was very hot and the fire was very hot. He felt a little sleepy. He put down the bowl and was about to come out when Master Liu stopped him.

"Wait, let's go, what are you busy with? Let me tell you: you came just in time. The 27th is my birthday, and I have to build a tent. Please treat me. You can help me for a few days, so there is no need to pull the cart. They," Mr. Liu pointed to the courtyard, "are not reliable. I don't want to teach them to be careless. You're just kidding. Just do whatever you have to do, don't wait for me to tell you. I'll treat you to hot pot at noon." "Yes, Fourth Master!" Xiangzi thought. Now that he's back here, let's leave everything to him. They can do whatever they want. "Isn't that right?" Tiger Girl said while holding it[1]

Came in, "It's still Xiangzi, the others are not as good."

Fourth Master Liu smiled. Xiangzi lowered his head further.

"Come on, Xiangzi!" Huniu called him out, "I'll give you money, and I'll buy a broom first. I want bamboo to sweep away the snow. You have to sweep it quickly, and the tent builder will come today." Walking to her room, she counted the money for Xiangzi and whispered in a low voice: "Be energetic! Please please the old man! There is hope for our affairs!"

Xiangzi was speechless and not angry. He seems to have given up and doesn't want to think about anything. He just wants to mess around for a day. Eat when you have something to eat, drink when you have something to drink, and work when you have something to do, and keep your hands and feet busy, turning around every day. I am like a donkey who is trying to learn how to pull a millstone.

He also felt that he would not be happy no matter what. Although he refused to think, speak, or lose his temper, there was always something stuck in his heart. When he was working, he temporarily forgot about it. Whenever he had some free time, he would feel this thing - soft, but always so big; it didn't have any definite smell, but it was choking, like a sponge. With this thing stuck in his heart, he worked hard to do things in order to make himself too tired to move so that he could fall asleep. Leave the things at night to Meng and the things during the day to his hands and feet. He seems to be a dead man who can work. He sweeps the snow, he buys things, he orders gas lights, he washes the car, he moves tables and chairs, he eats the reward meal from Mr. Liu, he sleeps, he knows nothing, there is no words in his mouth, no thoughts in his heart, he can only vaguely feel that sponge-like thing!

After the snow on the ground was swept away and the snow on the house gradually melted, the shed builder "called Gao'er" went up to the house and set up the shed. What we talked about was a greenhouse that could look into the yard, with eaves on three sides, railings on three sides, and glass windows on three sides. There are glass partitions and hanging screens in the shed, and any wood is wrapped in red cloth. The doors beside the main entrance are all hung with colorful decorations, and the kitchen is set up in the backyard. Fourth Master Liu, because Qingjiu has to do something lively, so the first thing to do is to build a decent shed. The weather was short, so the shed builder only tied up the body of the shed and put up the railings and cloth. The flowers in the shed and the colorful flowers on the door had to be hung the next morning. Mr. Liu lost his temper with the shed builder because of this, and his face turned red with anger. Because of this, he sent Xiangzi to activate the gas lamp. Cook, be sure not to miss the mark. In fact, these two items will never be mistaken, but the old man is worried. Xiangzi just came back because of this, and Fourth Master Liu asked him to borrow mahjong tiles, three or four pairs, so that he would have to gamble happily. I borrowed playing cards and was sent to borrow a gramophone. There must be some noise for birthday celebrations. Xiangzi's legs didn't stop for a while, and he ran until eleven o'clock at night. He was used to pulling a cart, so walking with empty hands was even more tiring than running; when he came back from the last trip, he, even he, couldn't lift his feet. "Good boy! You can do it! If I want to have a son like you, it would be better to teach me how many years to live! Just rest, I have something to do tomorrow!"

Huniu stood aside and winked at Xiangzi.

The next morning the shedman came to pick up the work. The color screen hangs above, depicting battle scenes from the "Three Kingdoms", including the Third Battle of Lu Bu, Chang Ban Slope, the Burning Battalion, etc. The big painted faces and the second painted faces are all riding horses and holding swords and guns. Old man Liu looked up and looked over and felt very satisfied. Immediately after, the guys came to unload the guys: there were eight seats in the shed, and the aprons, chairs, and stool covers were all embroidered in bright red. A copy of the longevity hall is placed in the main room. The incense burner and wax sticks are all cloisonné. Four red felts are placed in front of the table. Old man Liu immediately asked Xiangzi to buy some apples. Huniu secretly gave him two yuan and taught him how to buy Shoudao Shouxian noodles. He asked for a portion of Shoudao and Eight Immortals as a gift from Xiangzi. After the apples were bought, they were placed immediately; after a while, the longevity peach and longevity noodles also arrived and were placed behind the apples. The longevity peach was decorated with red lips and the Eight Immortals were inserted, which was very grand.

"This is a gift from Xiangzi, look at how thoughtful he is!" Huniu boasted in her father's ears, and Fourth Master Liu smiled at Xiangzi.

There is also a Chinese character for longevity in the middle of the longevity hall. As usual, it is given by friends, so there is no need to prepare it yourself. No one has sent it yet. Mr. Liu is impatient and wants to lose his temper again: "I will run to the front of anyone's business. When it comes to my business, leave it alone, it's his mother's!"

"I won't sit down until tomorrow on the 26th. What are you busy with?" Huniu shouted to comfort her. "I'm willing to put it all together at once; it's heart-wrenching to look at it piecemeal like this! I say Xiangzi, Shuiyuedeng[2]

You have to be safe today. If they don't come by four o'clock, I'll chop them up! "

"Xiangzi, keep urging him!" Huniu deliberately relied on him and always asked Xiangzi to do things in front of her father. Xiangzi said nothing and left after understanding what he was saying.

"It's not what I said, old man," she said with a curl of her lips, "If I have a son, he must be like Xiangzi! It's a pity that I was reborn by mistake. That can't be helped. In fact, it's not bad to have a godson like Xiangzi! Look at him, he doesn't even fart in a day, but he has done everything!"

Fourth Master Liu did not answer Bie'er, but thought for a moment: "Where is the chatterbox? Sing, sing!"

I don’t know where I borrowed a broken gramophone. Every sound sounded like a cat stepping on its tail, making it sound so heart-wrenching! Fourth Master Liu didn't care, as long as there was some noise.

By the afternoon, everything was ready, just waiting for the cook to come and sit down the next day. Mr. Liu made a tour of the place and saw flowers and trees everywhere, and nodded to himself. That night, he went to ask a gentleman from Tianshun Coal Shop to take care of the accounts. His surname was Feng, a native of Shanxi, and he was the most careful in accounting. Mr. Feng immediately came over to take a look and asked Xiangzi to buy two red ledgers and a piece of red paper. He cut the red paper, wrote some words about "longevity" and pasted it everywhere. Mr. Liu felt that Mr. Feng was really attentive, so he made an appointment to play a few rounds of mahjong with Mr. Feng. Mr. Feng knew how powerful Mr. Liu was and did not dare to take the blame. When the cards failed, Mr. Liu got a little angry and called some cart drivers, "Kaibao, do you have the guts?"

Everyone is willing to come, but they don't have the courage to come with Fourth Master Liu. Who doesn't know that he has opened a treasure game before!

"How did you guys get here alive!" Fourth Master lost his temper. "When I was your age, I dared to do it without even a small amount of money in my pocket. Let's talk about it if I lose; come on!"

"Coming for Tongzi'er?" a coachman tried to ask.

"Keep your copper, Liu Si won't let the children play!" The old man swallowed a cup of tea and touched his bald head. "Forget it, you won't come if you ask me to come! I said, you go tell everyone: sit down tomorrow, relatives and friends will come in the middle of the day, and the cars will be collected before four o'clock, and those who can't get in and out will pull the cars and squeeze in! I don't want the car tomorrow, and the cars will be collected at four o'clock. I will teach you to pull the car for a day, and I will give you a lot of thoughts in your heart. A word of good luck, don't be heartless! It's the day after tomorrow, and no one is allowed to pull the cart. I'll set it out for you at 8:30 in the morning. I'll give you six big bowls, two seven-inch dishes, and a pot. You should all put on your coats. Kick out whoever comes in with a pout, so that I can entertain you! Friends. Relatives and friends will eat three sea bowls, six cold meats, six stir-fried vegetables, four large bowls, and one pot. Let me tell you clearly. Relatives and friends are relatives and friends. I don’t want anything from you. If you give me a generous gift, I won’t take it too little. If you don’t take a penny, just kowtow to me three times. I will continue. You just have to behave yourself. Do you understand? If you come back after six o'clock, any leftovers will be yours. You can't come back early! Do you understand?" "You're going to be late tomorrow," a middle-aged driver asked. "Why do you want to collect the car at four o'clock?

"Come back after 11 o'clock if you are late! Anyway, don't crowd around when there are people in the shed! You are pulling the cart, Liu Si is not traveling with you, do you understand?"

Everyone had nothing to say, but they couldn't find a step to go out, and they stood there stiffly. Fourth Master Liu's words made everyone feel a little bit angry. Although it was a bargain to have a car for a day, whoever wanted to eat for free would not be able to pay at least forty coppers as a gift; besides, Liu Si's words were so unpleasant, as if he was celebrating his birthday and they all had to hide like mice. Besides, no one was allowed to go out on the 27th of the official day, and it was the time when there was business at the end of the year. Liu Si could not afford to sacrifice a day's income, so everyone accompanied him to "bubble"[3]

It’s too much to stand for one day! Everyone stood there in anger but did not dare to say anything. They did not say auspicious words to Mr. Liu in their hearts.

Huniu pulled Xiangzi, and Xiangzi followed her out.

Everyone's anger seemed to have suddenly found a way out, and they all stared at Xiangzi's back. For the past two days, everyone feels that Xiangzi is a lackey of the Liu family, a man who fawns to death and works hard without complaint.[4]

. Xiangzi didn't know this at all, so he helped the Liu family to take away the troubles in his heart. He had nothing to say to everyone at night because he had nothing to say. They didn't know his grievances, but thought he was fawning over Mr. Liu, so they didn't bother to talk to them. Huniu's care for Xiangzi left a sour taste in everyone's heart. Thinking of the current incident, Fourth Master Liu did not allow them to come and go in the wedding shed, but Xiangzi would definitely be able to eat well all day long. They were both pulling carts, so why were there different ranks? Look, Miss Liu called Xiangzi out again! Everyone followed Xiangzi with their eyes and wanted to move their legs, so they all came out to chat with him. Miss Liu was talking to Xiangzi under the gas lamp, and everyone nodded to each other.

[1]

When holding it, it is estimated that the appropriate moment has arrived.

[2]

Shuiyue lamp, that is, gas lamp.

[3]

Bubble means to spend time. It is a deliberate action.

[4]

Broken reminder, that is, a handyman.

fourteen

The Liu family's affairs were very lively. Fourth Master Liu was very satisfied that so many people came to kowtow to him and celebrate his birthday. What makes me even more proud is that many old friends also rushed to congratulate me. From these old friends, he saw that his work was not only lively, but also "improved." The clothes of those old friends are out of date, but the fourth master's leather robe and mandarin jacket are all newly made. In terms of career, several of his friends were richer than him back then, but now - after the changes of the past 20 to 30 years - their status has become lower and lower, and it is difficult for some of them to have enough to eat. Looking at them, and then at his wedding tent, longevity hall, the hanging screen with the long slope, and the three sea bowl seats, he felt that he was indeed a head above them, and he had "reformed." Even when gambling, he was prepared to play mahjong tiles, which was much more elegant than betting. However, in this lively situation, he also felt a little sad and sad. Being used to living a single life, he originally expected that the people who came to celebrate his birthday would be just the shopkeepers and gentlemen in the shop, as well as the bachelors he had known from the past. Unexpectedly, some female guests also came. Although Huniu could entertain him, he suddenly felt lonely. He had no wife, only a daughter, and she looked like a man. If Huniu were a man, of course he would have already married and had children. Even if he was an old widower, he might not be so lonely. Yes, I lack nothing but a son. The longer one lives, the smaller the hope of having a son. A birthday celebration is a happy event, but it seems that one should shed tears. No matter how you reform yourself, if no one continues your career, is everything still in vain?

For the first half of the day, he liked it very much. Everyone wished him birthday, and he accepted it grandly, as if he felt that he was an old hero who had won honors in Aoli. In the second half of the day, his energy dropped a little. Looking at the children brought by the female guests, he was envious and jealous, but he did not dare to get close to the children, and felt awkward if he did not get close to them. He wanted to lose his temper, but he refused to get angry immediately. He knew that he was an outsider and could not make a fool of himself in front of his relatives and friends. He was willing to let this day pass quickly and not suffer this pain again.

There was also a slight fly in the ointment. When serving meals to the coachmen in the morning, Xiangzi almost got into a fight with someone.

Dinner started at around eight o'clock, and the coachmen were a little reluctant. Although there was a day's worth of car sharing yesterday, no one came to eat with nothing today. Whether it was a dime or forty cents, there were gifts of all sizes. On weekdays, everyone is a hard man and Liu Si is the factory owner; today, according to everyone, they are guests and should not be treated like this.

Besides, you have to leave after eating, and you’re not allowed to get out of the car. It’s the end of the year!

Xiangzi must have known that he was not among those who would leave after eating, but he was willing to eat with everyone. Firstly, he had eaten early so that he could go about his work, and secondly, he was obviously friendly. Sitting down with everyone, everyone shifted their dissatisfaction with Liu Si to him. As soon as he sat down, someone said, "Hey, you are a distinguished guest, why are you sitting with us?" Xiangzi smiled stupidly, but did not understand the meaning of the words. In the past few days, he himself had not spoken any gossip, so his mind seemed to be out of control. Everyone didn't dare to get angry with Liu Si, so we had to eat more of him; no more food could be added, but no restrictions on wine, wedding wine! They all wanted to drink wine to kill. Some were shouting, and some were guessing their punches; Old Man Liu couldn't stop them from guessing their punches. Xiangzi saw everyone drinking, but he was too unconventional, so he drank two cups. As we drank, everyone's eyes became red and their mouths were no longer under control. Some said: "Xiangzi, Camel, you are doing a great job! You can feed me for a whole day and serve the lady! You don't have to pull the cart tomorrow, so you'd better go with me!" Xiangzi heard something, but he didn't take it to heart yet; as soon as he entered Renhe Factory, he decided not to pretend to be a hero anymore, and left everything to fate. Whoever wants to say whatever he wants, say whatever he likes. He took his breath away. Some of them said, "Xiangzi is going a different way. We make money with our strength, but Xiangzi is an internal force!" Everyone laughed. Xiangzi felt that everyone was "biting" him, but he had suffered such a huge grievance, so why bother with these gossips? He hadn't said anything yet. The people at the next table saw the advantage, and some stretched their necks and shouted: "Xiangzi, you will become the owner of the factory tomorrow, don't forget your brothers!" Before Xiangzi could say anything, the people at the table said again: "Speak, Camel!"

Xiangzi's face turned red and he whispered: "How can I be a factory owner?!" "Humph, why can't you? Just look at it...[1]

La! Xiangzi didn't ask what "dong dong dong" meant, but he intuitively guessed that it was referring to his relationship with Huniu. His face slowly turned from red to white, and all the grievances he had suffered in the past suddenly came to mind, and they were all blocked in his heart. For several days, It seems that the silence can no longer be maintained, like a bottle of water that is about to rush out when it encounters an exit. At this moment, a driver pointed at his face and said: "Xiangzi, what about you, you are really a 'dumb man who eats flat food - you know what you want'." Isn’t it, say it yourself, Xiangzi? Xiangzi? "

Xiangzi stood up suddenly, his face turned pale, and asked the man: "Do you dare to go out and tell me?"

Everyone was stunned. They did intend to "bite" him and leave some idle dishes, but they were not prepared to fight.

There was a sudden silence, like a songbird in the forest suddenly seeing an eagle. Xiangzi stood there alone, much taller than the others, and he felt his isolation. But with anger in his heart, he seemed to be convinced that even if they all took action, they would not be his opponent. He added: "Does anyone dare to go out?"

Everyone suddenly thought about it and almost all said at the same time: "Come on, Xiangzi, I'm just teasing you!"

Mr. Liu saw it and said: "Sit down, Xiangzi!" Then he said to everyone, "Don't bully anyone who is honest. If you get anxious, I will kick you all out! Eat quickly!" Xiangzi left the table. Everyone teased Old Man Liu with their eyes and picked up their food. After a while, he started chirping again, like a forest bird that had passed the danger and chirped softly again.

Xiangzi squatted at the door for a long time, waiting for them. If any of them dare to gossip again, beat them up! If you have nothing, leave it alone[2]

Bar! But everyone came out in groups and didn't look for him again. Although he didn't succeed, he was somewhat angry. Then I thought about it, today's move offended many people. On weekdays, I have no close friends, so I have nowhere to complain; how can I offend others again? He regretted it a bit. The little thing I just ate was sitting sideways in my stomach, and it hurt a little. He stood up, no matter what, didn't those people who fight every day and cause famine have a very interesting life? Are honest rules necessarily beneficial? Thinking of this, he drew another path for himself. The Xiangzi on this path was completely different from what he had hoped for before. This is a person who makes friends with everyone he meets, takes advantage of others, drinks other people's tea, smokes other people's cigarettes, refuses to pay back money he borrows, refuses to hide from cars, urinates wherever he sees, plays tricks with the patrolmen all the time, and dragging him to the "area" for two or three days is nothing. Yes, such a coachman is alive and happy, at least happier than Xiangzi. Well, being honest, disciplined, and being strong are all useless, so it’s not bad to become such a scoundrel. Not only is it good, Xiangzi thought, but it also has the spirit of a heroic man. He is not afraid of the sky or the earth, and he will never lower his head and suffer the consequences of being dumb. That’s right! This is what should be done! Bad quacks are made by good people. On the contrary, I feel a little regretful that this fight could not be fought. Fortunately, I'm not busy. From now on, I won't bow to anyone anymore.

Mr. Liu did not rub sand in his eyes. Putting everything he had heard and seen before and after in one place, he already understood 80% to 90% of it. These days, the girl has been very obedient, hum, because Xiangzi is back! Looking at her eyes, she always follows him. The old man felt even more desolate and sad when he kept this in his heart. Think about it, if you don’t have a son, you can’t start a family in a hurry; if the girl leaves with someone else! My whole life has been wasted! Xiangzi is indeed good, but when it comes to being a son and a son-in-law, he is far worse than a stinky cart driver! After running around all his life, fighting in gangs, kneeling on iron ropes, and finally teaching a country boy, he moved away with his daughter and property? It's not that easy! Even if there is, don’t even think about getting it from Liu Si! Liu Si has been a farter since he was a child!

At three or four o'clock in the afternoon, some birthday greeters came, but the old man already found it boring. The more the guests praised him for his toughness and good character, the less interesting he felt.

After arriving to hold the lamp, the guests dispersed one after another, and only a dozen people who lived nearby and had close friendships were still here. Looking at the empty shed in the courtyard, which was illuminated blue by the water moon lamp, and the table with the apron removed, the old man felt empty and boring, as if it would be like this when he died, just changing the wedding shed into a white shed. There were no children or grandchildren in front of the coffin, only some unrelated people playing mahjong and keeping vigil! He really wanted to drive out the guests who had not left yet; while he was still alive, he should show off his power! However, I am too embarrassed to kill my friends. His anger turned around, and the more he looked at the girl, the more displeased he became. Xiangzi was sitting in the shed, looking like a human and a dog, and the scar on his face looked like a piece of jade when illuminated by the light. What does the old man think of this couple? How awkward they are!

Tiger girl has always been wild and dull. Today, she was dressed up head and feet, and had to pretend to entertain guests, not only to win praise from everyone, but also to show off her skills in front of Xiangzi. In the first half of the day, I thought this monster was interesting. When I arrived after noon, I was a little tired, so I felt disgusted and wanted to scold someone. By night, she didn't even have the slightest patience left, and her eyebrows were always standing straight up because of their own tension.

It's past seven o'clock, and Fourth Master Liu is a little sleepy, but he refuses to go to sleep. Everyone asked him to join in and play a few rounds of cards, but he refused to say that he was not energetic enough, but said that playing cards was not enjoyable, and that betting on money or Pai Gow suited his taste. No one wanted to change midway, so he had to sit aside. In order to cheer up, he would drink a few more cups, saying that he was not full, and complaining that the cook made too much money and the dishes were not full. From this point on, he overthrew all the satisfaction he had felt during the day: the shed, the guy's seat, the cook, and everything else were not worth the money, and they were all wronged!

Mr. Feng, who was in charge of the accounts, had already settled the accounts at this time: twenty-five birthday curtains, three bowls of birthday peach noodles, a jar of birthday wine, two pairs of birthday candles, and a gift of about twenty yuan. There are many numbers, but most of them are forty coppers or ten cents.

After hearing this report, Fourth Master Liu became even more angry. If I had known this, I should have prepared "stir-fried noodles"! A ten cent favor for eating three bowls of sea food? This is simply taking the old man for granted! I will never do anything again, and I can’t pay for this useless money! Needless to say, everyone, including relatives and friends, wanted to eat him for nothing; the sixty-nine-year-old man was actually smarter than ever, and in a moment of confusion, he taught a group of monkeys to eat the bastard! The old man became more and more angry as he thought about it, and even the satisfaction he felt during the day was regarded as his own confusion. Thinking this in his heart, he muttered many curses that are no longer popular on the street.

Before all the friends left, Huniu wanted to stop her father from acting wildly to save everyone's face. However, seeing that everyone was paying attention to the cards in their hands, they didn't seem to pay attention to what the old man was nagging. It was not convenient for her to speak, so as not to clarify the matter. Let him nag, let him get over it.

Who knows, the old man walked around her as he spoke. She decided not to do this! He was celebrating his birthday, and she was busy with it for several days, but it didn't turn out well. She couldn't let it go! Sixty-nine or seventy-nine is not enough, you still have to be reasonable! She immediately returned it:

"You have to spend your own money to do things, why are you bothering me?"

The old man encountered a counterattack and his spirits suddenly lifted. "What's bothering you? I'm just following you! Why do you think my eyes are doing nothing?"

"What did you see? I've been tired all day, and you're going to kill me at the end. Wait a minute! Tell me, what did you see?" The tiger girl's fatigue was relieved, and her mouth was very flexible.

"Don't watch me do things. Are you hot-eyed? Did you see it? I've seen it all, huh!"

"Why am I so hot-eyed?!" she said, shaking her head. "What exactly did you see?"

"Isn't that?!" Liu Si pointed towards the shed - Xiangzi was bending over to sweep the floor. "He?" Huniu trembled in her heart. She didn't expect the old man's eyes to be so sharp. "Hmph! How is he?"

"Don't assume that you understand, just say that you are confused!" The old man stood up. "If he wants to live without me, if he wants me to live without him, just tell you. I am your father! I should take care of it!"

Huniu didn't expect that things would break down so quickly. She had only accomplished less than half of her plan, but the old man had already figured it out! What to do? Her face turned red, dark red, half-remaining pink, and bright green light, like a piece of over-cooked pork liver, the color was complex and ugly. She was a little tired; she was aroused by this and became angry again. She couldn't think of an idea and was very confused. She couldn't just go back and feel confused, so she had to find a solution immediately. An ill-conceived idea is better than no idea at all. She never gives in in front of anyone! Well, let's do it simply, good or bad depends on this hammer! "It's okay that everything has been explained clearly today, let's just leave it like this. What do you think? I want to hear it! This is your own illness, don't say I have any intention of being angry with you!"

The card players seemed to hear the father and daughter quarreling, but they couldn't bear to look at anything else. In order to resist their voices, everyone smashed the cards louder and shouted red, touch... Xiangzi understood what was going on and kept his head down to sweep the floor.

"Are you just so angry with me?" The old man's eyes were widened. "You're making me so angry that you're going to cheat on me? Don't make any plans, I still have to live for a few more years!" "Don't make idle offers, what are you going to do?" Huniu's heart was pounding, but her mouth was very hard. "What should I do? Didn't I tell you before, there is him without me, there is me without him! I can't just be a cheap rickshaw puller!"

Xiangzi threw away the broom, straightened up, looked at Liu Si, and asked: "Who are you talking about?" Liu Si laughed wildly: "Haha, you kid, are you going to rebel? Who are you talking about? Get out of here right now! I look good on you, and I'll give you a face. If you dare to disturb Tai Sui, you won't even ask me what I do! Get out! Don't ever teach me to see you here, you're here to get some advantage, ah?"

The old man's voice was too loud, so he summoned several coachmen to watch the fun. The people playing cards thought that Mr. Liu was quarreling with the coachman again, so they still refused to look up.

Xiangzi didn't have a convenient mouth. He wanted to say a lot, but not a word came to his tongue. He stood there blankly, swallowing with his neck straightened. "Get out of here! Get out of here! Are you here looking for an advantage? I didn't have you when I took out the bad things, huh!" The old man was a little scared just to scare Xiangzi. He didn't hate Xiangzi as much as he hated his daughter. Even when he was angry, he still felt that Xiangzi was indeed an honest man.

"Okay, I'm leaving!" Xiangzi had nothing to say, so he had to leave here quickly; no matter what, he couldn't fight with them in their bickering.

The coachmen were watching the excitement and saw Mr. Liu scolding Xiangzi. They still remembered the scene in the morning and felt very happy. When they heard that the old man was chasing Xiangzi out, they turned to him again - Xiangzi had suffered so much and had to cross the river and demolish the bridge. Someone rushed over and asked, "What's the matter, Xiangzi?" Xiangzi shook his head.

"Xiangzi, please wait and leave!" Huniu felt a flash in her heart and saw clearly: her plan is of little use. It's better to hurry than to catch Xiangzi quickly. Otherwise, the chickens will fly and the eggs will be beaten! "It's our business, two grasshoppers are tied with a rope, neither of us can run away! Just wait, wait until I explain it clearly!" She turned to the old man and said, "Just say it, I already have it, Xiangzi's! I will go wherever he goes! Are you going to give me to him? Or are you going to kick us both out together? What do you want me to say?"

Huniu didn't expect that things would happen so quickly and that she would take out her last trick so early. Fourth Master Liu never expected that things would reach this stage. However, now that things have come to this, he cannot give in, especially in front of everyone. "You really have the nerve to speak out. Even my old face is burning for you!" He slapped himself in the mouth. "Bah! So shameless!"

The people playing cards stopped, feeling that something was wrong, but they were confused, didn't know what was going on, and couldn't talk to each other; some stood up, and some looked at their cards blankly.

After saying the words, Hu Niu was happy: "I am shameless? Don't teach me to talk about you to others. What shit have you never done? This is the first time for me, and it's all your fault: the male should marry, the female should marry, you are sixty-nine, and your life is in vain! This is not in front of the public," she pointed around, "It's best that we have figured it out, we are clear-sighted! You can do something else for this wedding shed!"

"Me?" Mr. Liu's face turned from red to white, and he showed off all his bachelor energy: "I set a fire to burn the shed, but I can't use it for you!" "Okay!" Huniu's lips trembled, and her voice was very unpleasant, "I pack up my bed and leave, how much will you give me?"

"The money is mine, and I give it to whomever I want!" The old man felt a little sad when he heard that his daughter was leaving, but he was cruel to fight for this tone.

"Your money? I've been helping you for these years; without me, think about it, it would be weird if all your money was given to wild bitches. Let's follow our conscience!" Her eyes found Xiangzi again, "You say it!"

Xiangzi stood there upright, without a word to say.

[1]

Dong Dong Dong, the sound of drum music during a wedding, is a metaphor for getting married.

[2]

No matter who you are, no matter who you are.

fifteen

When it comes to using force, Xiangzi cannot hit an old man, nor can he hit a girl. His power has no use. To act rogue, you can only think about it, but you cannot act it out. As for Huniu, she could just stamp her feet and run away. Because of the current situation, since she had a falling out with her father and was willing to go with him, no one knew what was going on in her heart. On the surface, she died for Xiangzi. In front of everyone, he couldn't help but show some heroic spirit. He had nothing to say, so he could only stand there and wait for the truth to come to light; at least he had to do this to act like a man.

The Liu family's father and daughter could only stare at each other, having nothing to say; Xiangzi was speechless. The coachmen, no matter who they were talking to, seemed to find it difficult to interrupt. The people playing cards could not stop talking, and the silence was already embarrassing. However, everyone could only say a few perfunctory words to persuade both parties not to be too angry and to say slowly that the matter would not be difficult to deal with. They can only say this, they cannot solve anything, and they don’t want to solve anything. Seeing that neither side is willing to give in, then it is difficult for an upright official to stop family affairs, so he should run away if he has the chance.

Before everyone could escape, Miss Tiger caught Mr. Feng from the Tianshun Coal Plant: "Mr. Feng, don't you have room in your shop? Let Xiangzi stay for two days first. Our things will be done quickly, and we can't occupy your place for a long time. Xiangzi, go with Mr. Feng and see you tomorrow to discuss our affairs. Let me tell you, when I go back to the door, I still have to sit in a sedan chair to leave this door! Mr. Feng, I will leave him to you, and I will ask you for someone tomorrow!"

Mr. Feng took a deep breath, unwilling to take this responsibility. Xiangzi was eager to leave here and said: "I can't run away!"

The tiger girl glared at the old man, returned to her room, cried at the top of her voice, and locked the door from the inside.

The Feng gentlemen persuaded Fourth Master Liu to come in, and the old man showed off his outfield energy again and asked everyone not to leave. He still had to drink a few cups: "Don't worry, everyone, from now on she is her and I am me, and there will be no more quarrels. If you leave her, just pretend that I have never had such a girl. I have spent my whole life in the outfield, and I have lost my face to her! Go back twenty years, I Kill them both alive! Now let her go. Don't give her a penny! Just give her a try and you'll know who is better, dad or a wild man!" Everyone said a few words in a hurry to avoid right and wrong.

Xiangzi went to Tianshun Coal Factory.

Things went really quickly. Huniu rented two small north rooms in a large courtyard in Maojiawan. She immediately searched for them, and the paper poster was so confused that everything fell to the ground. She asked Mr. Feng to write some happy words and paste them in the house. After the house was decorated, she went to ask for a sedan: a sedan with stars in the sky, sixteen rattles, no golden lamps, no butlers. After everything was agreed upon, she dressed herself in a red silk sedan gown; she had done it before the year, so she didn't have to go through any needlework. The happy day is set on the sixth day of the Lunar New Year, which is a good day and does not require taboos. She did it all by herself and told Xiangzi to buy new ones from head to toe: "This will happen once in a lifetime!"

Xiangzi only has five yuan in his hand!

Huniu looked at it again: "What? Where is the more than thirty yuan I gave you?"

Xiangzi couldn't help but tell the truth and told her everything about Cao Zhai. She blinked and said suspiciously: "Okay, I don't have time to argue with you, let's just follow our conscience! I'll give you these fifteen dollars! If you don't dress like a new person by the end of the day, be careful!"

On the sixth day of the lunar month, Huniu got on the sedan chair. I didn’t say a word to my father, there was no escort from brothers, no congratulations from relatives and friends; only those gongs and drums sounded lively on the streets after the New Year, and the sedan chair steadily passed through the Xi’an Gate and the Xisi Archway, which also aroused some envy and some feelings among the people wearing new clothes-especially the shop assistants.

Xiangzi was wearing new clothes bought from Tianqiao, with a red face and a small satin hat worth three cents. He seemed to have forgotten himself, and looked at everything and listened to everything stupidly. He seemed to not even recognize himself. He moved from a coal shop to a new house decorated in snow-white, and he didn't know what was going on: before, things were just like in a coal factory, with piles of black; now he walked into the new house in a daze, and it was so white that it dazzled the eyes, with a few blood-red happy words stuck on it. He felt a kind of ridicule, a kind of white, vague and suffocating feeling. In the room, there are Huniu's original tables, chairs and bed; the stove and dish table are new; and there is a duster with colorful chicken feathers stuck in the corner of the room. He knew the tables and chairs, but he felt unfamiliar with the stove, dish table, and feather duster. The combination of old and new objects reminds him of the past and worries about the future. Everything is at the mercy of others, and he himself looks like something old and something new at the same time, a decoration, something strange; he doesn't recognize himself. He couldn't think of crying, he couldn't think of laughing. His big hands and feet were moving around in this small and warm room, like a big rabbit in a small wooden cage. His eyes were red, looking outside and inside. He only had legs that could fly, but he couldn't run out! Huniu was wearing a red coat, her face was smeared with white powder and rouge, her eyes were glancing at him. He didn't dare to look at her. She is also a strange thing that is both old and new at the same time, a girl and a woman, a woman and a man, a human and some ferocious beast! This beast, wearing a red coat, has caught him and is preparing to take care of him carefully. Anyone can deal with him. This beast is particularly powerful. It wants to guard him all the time, glare at him, laugh at him, and hug him tightly, sucking out all his strength. He couldn't escape. He took off the little satin hat and stared blankly at the red knot on the hat until he was dazzled - when he turned his face, the wall was covered with red dots, whirling and beating, and in the middle there was a bigger, red, tiger girl with an ugly smile on her face! On the eve of the wedding, Xiangzi realized that Huniu was not pregnant. Like a magician, she explained to him: "If I hadn't wronged you so much, how could you have nodded so firmly! I stuffed a pillow in the waistband of my trousers! Haha, haha!" She laughed until she shed tears: "You silly thing! Forget it, I deserve you anyway; who are you and who am I? I had a quarrel with my father and followed you, why don't you thank God?" The next day, Xiangzi went out very early. Most of the shops have opened for business, but some are still closed. The Spring Festival couplets on the door are still red, but the yellow hanging money has been blown to pieces by the wind. The street is very calm, there are many foreign cars, and the rickshaw drivers seem to be more energetic than usual. Almost all of them are wearing new pairs of shoes, and there is a piece of red paper stuck on the back of the car. Xiangzi envied these rickshaw drivers and felt that they seemed to be celebrating the New Year, while he had been suffocating in a gourd for several days; they were all keeping to themselves, but he had no livelihood and was wandering on the street. He was not content with idleness, but if he planned to think about tomorrow, he would have to discuss it with Huniu, his wife; he was thinking about his wife, such a wife! ——Begging for food in hand. It's useless to grow so tall and have so much strength. He had to serve his wife first, that thing with a red coat and tiger fangs; a thing that sucked human essence and blood; he was no longer a human being, but just a piece of meat. He lost himself and was only struggling in her teeth, like a mouse caught in a cat's mouth. He didn't want to discuss with her, he had to leave; he had made up his mind to leave her without saying goodbye. There's nothing shameful about this, she's a monster who can do tricks with him with pillows! He was so worried that he not only wanted to tear the new clothes into pieces, but also wanted to wash himself in clean water from the inside out. He felt that there was something unclean and disgusting stuck to his whole body, which made him feel disgusted in his heart. He wants to never see her face again!

Where to go? He has no destination. On weekdays, when pulling a cart, his legs followed other people's words. Today, his legs were free and he was at a loss. Following the Xisi Archway to the south, he exited the Xuanwu Gate: the road was so straight, and his heart would never turn. After leaving the city gate and heading south, he saw a bathhouse. He decided to take a shower.

He took off his clothes and looked at his body, feeling very ashamed. When he went down into the pool, the hot water made his whole body numb. He closed his eyes, and his body was numb and numb, as if some accumulated filth was radiating out. He almost didn't dare to touch himself, his heart was empty and beads of sweat were streaming down his head. It wasn't until his breathing became short that he lazily climbed up, his body flushed like a newborn baby. He didn't seem to dare to just walk out and put on a big towel. He still felt ugly. Although beads of sweat fell down, he still felt that he was unclean - the filth in his heart seemed to never be washed away: in the eyes of Fourth Master Liu and in the eyes of everyone who knew him, he would always be a woman-stealer!

Before the sweat had completely fallen, he hurriedly put on his clothes and ran out. He was afraid that everyone would see his nakedness! After leaving the bathhouse, he felt relaxed in the cool breeze. The street was much livelier than before. The clear sky brings some brilliance to everyone's face. Xiangzi's heart was still worried, and he didn't know where to go. Going south, east, and south again, he ran to the overpass. After the New Year, at around nine o'clock, the shopkeeper's apprentices had already finished their breakfast and arrived here. Various stalls and performing arts venues were set up early and occupied. When Xiangzi arrived, a circle of people had gathered around the place, and gongs and drums were playing inside. He wasn't in the mood to see anything, and he couldn't laugh anymore.

On weekdays, the cross talkers, bear performers, jugglers, treasure counting performers, yangko singers, drum calligraphers, and acrobatics practitioners here can all provide him with some real happiness and make him open his mouth to smile. He couldn't bear to leave Peiping, and Tianqiao was half the reason. Every time he looked at the mat tents on the overpass and the people in the circle, he remembered many funny and lovely things. Now he was too lazy to push forward, and he was no longer part of the laughter on the bridge. He avoided the crowd and walked to a quiet place, feeling reluctant to leave! No, he couldn't leave this lively and lovely place, couldn't leave the overpass, couldn't leave Peiping. Walk? There is no way to go! He still had to go back to her—to her! ——Go to discuss. He couldn't leave, nor could he be idle. He had to take a step back and think, just like everyone had to take a step back and think when they were helpless. You have suffered all kinds of grievances, why should you be serious about this point alone? He couldn't correct everything in the past, so he had to go down the road.

He stood still, listening to the chaotic sounds of people and the sound of gongs and drums; looking at the people, cars and horses coming and going, he suddenly thought of the two huts. The sound in my ears seemed to have disappeared, and the people in front of me seemed to have disappeared. Only the two white, warm huts with red happy characters on them stood squarely in front of me. Although they only stayed for one night, they were very familiar and intimate. Even the woman in the red coat seemed not to be given up casually. Standing on the overpass, he had nothing and was nothing; in those two huts, he had everything. Go back, only by going back can you find a solution. Everything for tomorrow is in that cabin. It's useless to be ashamed, afraid, or sad; if you want to live, you have to find a place where you can find a way.

He walked back angrily and entered the house, probably just after eleven o'clock. Huniu had already prepared lunch: boiled steamed buns, boiled cabbage and meatballs, a plate of tiger skin jelly, and a plate of pickled radish. Everything else has been laid out, only the cabbage is still simmering on the fire, emitting some wonderful fragrance. She had taken off her red coat and put on her usual cotton trousers and jacket. On her head was a small red flower made of velvet, with a small gold paper ingot on the flower. Xiangzi glanced at her, she didn't look like a bride. Every move she makes is like a daughter-in-law who has been with her for many years, deft, sophisticated, and a little self-satisfied. Although she didn't look like a bride, she still made him feel something new. She cooked the food and tidied the house. The fragrance and heating in the house were all things he had never experienced before. No matter what she did, he felt like he had a family. A home always has its lovely features. He didn't know how to get better.

"Where are you? You!" she asked as she went to serve the cabbage. "Go take a shower." He took off his robe.

"Ah! When you go out next time, say something! Don't wave your hands and walk away so carelessly!" He was speechless.

"Can you hum? No, I'll teach you!"

He snorted, there was nothing he could do! He knew that he would marry a yaksha, but this yaksha could cook, clean the house, scold him and help him, but it would be useless to teach him anything! He ate the steamed buns. The food was indeed more delicious and hotter than usual, but it didn't taste good and he couldn't feel the pleasure of devouring it in his mouth as he chewed it. He couldn't sweat after eating.

After eating, he lay on the kang, resting his head on his palms and looking at the roof of the shed. "Hey! Help me brush this guy off! I'm not someone's slave girl!" she shouted from the outer room.

Lazy, he stood up, glanced at her, and walked over to help. He is usually very diligent, but now he is holding his breath to do things. When he was at the car factory, he often helped her. Now the more he looks at her, the more he hates her. He has never hated anyone as much as he hates her. He can't say why. I'm angry, but I don't want to let it out. I keep it in my heart. Since I can't break up with her, there's no point in arguing with her. Wandering around the hut, he felt that his whole life was a grievance.

After packing her things, she glanced around and sighed. A smile followed. "how?"

"What?" Xiangzi squatted by the stove and warmed his hands. His hands were not cold, so he had no choice but to warm them because there was no place to put them. The two cabins did feel like home, but he didn't know where to put his feet.

"Take me out to have fun? Go to Baiyun Temple? No, it's late; go for a walk on the street?" She wanted to fully enjoy the happiness of her wedding. Although getting married is not a good idea, it is good to be so carefree. It is just a good time to spend more time with my husband and have fun for a few days. In her parents' home, she has no shortage of food, clothing, and change; she just doesn't have a close man. Now, she wants to make up for this shortcoming, and she wants to show off in the streets, at temple fairs, and play with Xiangzi.

Xiangzi refused to go. First, he felt that it was shameful to take his wife around the world. Second, he thought that a wife who came like this could only be hidden at home. This was not a decent thing, and the less she showed off in front of everyone, the better. Also, when you go out, you can't help but meet acquaintances. All the rickshaw pullers in the western half of the city don't know Huniu and Xiangzi. He can't invite everyone to whisper behind his back.

"Can we discuss it?" He was still squatting there.

"Is there anything to discuss?" She came over and stood next to the stove. He took his hand off, put it on his lap, and stared blankly at the flames. After being stunned for a long time, he said: "I can't be so idle!"

"Suffering!" She laughed. "If you don't pull a cart for a day, your body will feel itchy, right? Look at the old man, he has been playing for a lifetime and still drives a car factory when he is old. He doesn't pull a cart, he doesn't work hard, and he makes his living based on his heart. You have to learn a little bit, who is old after pulling a cart for a lifetime? Let's play for a few days first, and we won't just be busy in these few days, why are we running for our lives? I don't plan to quarrel with you these two days, and you don't want to be angry with me!"

"Let's discuss it first!" Xiangzi decided not to give in. Since you can't stomp away, you have to find a way to do something. You have to stand at one end first, and you can't swing back and forth like a swing.

"Okay, tell me!" She moved a stool and sat by the stove. "How much money do you have?" he asked.

"Really? I knew you were going to ask this! You're not marrying a wife, you're marrying for the money, right?"

Xiangzi seemed to be choked by a breath of wind and swallowed several times. Old man Liu and the driver of Renren Factory all thought that he was greedy for money, so he hooked up with Huniu; now, she said so herself! My own car and my own money were thrown away for no reason, and now I am weighed down by a few dollars from my wife; I have to go down my spine to eat! He wished he could wrap his hands around her neck and choke her! pinch! pinch! Until she rolled her eyes! He strangled everything to death and then wiped his own neck. They are not human and must die; he himself is not human and must die; no one needs to think about living!

Xiangzi stood up and wanted to go out for a walk again; he shouldn't have come back just now. Seeing that Xiangzi's expression was wrong, she softened a little: "Okay, let me tell you. I have a total of about five hundred yuan in my hand. Even the sedan chair and rented house - three shares[1]

, paste the shed, make clothes, buy things, and bring them to you. I spent a small amount of one hundred and returned them to the bag, leaving about four hundred yuan. I'm telling you, you don't have to worry. Let's give it a happy life. You, as an adult, sweating while pulling a cart, deserve a few days of fun; as for me, as an old girl, I deserve a few days of fun. When we almost run out of money, we'll beg the old man to go. As for me, if I hadn't fallen out with him that day, I would never have left. Now my anger is gone, dad is dad after all. As for him, he only has a daughter like me, and you are the person he likes. If we give in and make amends to him, there will probably be nothing difficult for him to do. How ready is this! If he has money, let's accept it in a decent manner. There is nothing unreasonable about it; it's better than you working as livestock for others! In two days, you go there first; he may not see you. If you don't see him once, you will go a second time; if you give him face, he will have to change his mind. Then I'll go and give him a few nice words, maybe we can all move back. As soon as we moved back, the caretaker puffed up his chest and no one dared to look at us sideways; if we endured here forever, we would always be a pair of black people, don't you think? "

Xiangzi never thought of this. Ever since Huniu came to Cao's house to look for him, he thought he had married her, used her money to buy a car, and drove it himself. Although it was not respectable to use his wife's money, his relationship with her was a kind of unspoken relationship, so there was nothing he could do about it. He didn't expect that Hu Niu had such a trick. Pulling his long face down, of course this is indeed an idea, but Xiangzi is not that kind of person. After thinking about it, he seemed to understand something: if he had money, he could teach others to take it away for free, and he had nowhere to complain if he had grievances. When someone gives you money, you have to accept it; after accepting it, you can no longer treat yourself as a person. You have no ambition and no strength, so you have to be someone else's slave: a plaything of your own wife and a slave of your father-in-law. A person seems to be nothing at all, just a bird. If he goes to hunt for food, he will fall into the net. If you eat other people's grain and rice, you have to stay in a cage and sing for others, and you can be sold at any time!

He refused to go to Fourth Master Liu. The relationship with Hu Niu is that the flesh is in the flesh; with Liu Si, it has nothing to do with it. She has already suffered a lot from her, so she can no longer sue her father! "I don't want to be idle!" He only said this to save himself from talking and arguing.

"Are you going to suffer from this?" she said, tapping and teasing. "If you don't like to be idle, go and do some business."

"I can't! I can't make any money! I can pull a cart, and I love pulling a cart!" The tendons in Xiangzi's head jumped.

"Let me tell you, you are not allowed to pull the cart! I won't allow you to get on my bed with a stinking sweat all over your body! You have your own ideas, and I have mine. Let's see, who can be more awkward than the other! You married a wife, but you didn't pay a penny for the money I spent. Think about it, who of us should listen to whom?"

Xiangzi was speechless again.

[1]

Three shares, three months' rent is paid in the first month of renting a house.

sixteen

When the Lantern Festival arrived, Xiangzi couldn't bear it any longer.

Hu Niu was very happy. She was busy cooking Yuanxiao and making dumplings, visiting temples during the day and lantern viewing at night. She didn't allow Xiangzi to have any ideas, but she always wanted to eat him, so she tried her best to buy him something fresh to eat. There are seven or eight families in the courtyard, most of whom live in one room; some families of all ages live in one room. Some of these people pull carts, some do small business, some work as patrolmen, and some work as servants. Everyone has their own business, and no one has time. Even the children carry small baskets and go to make porridge in the morning and collect coal cores in the afternoon. Only the little ones played or fought in the yard with their buttocks turned red from the cold. The dirt, dirt, and water from the furnace were all dumped in the courtyard, and no one bothered to clean it. The middle of the courtyard was filled with ice. The older children came back from collecting coal cores and used it as an ice rink, clamoring for ice skating. Those who suffer the most are the elderly and women. The old people have no food and clothing, lying on the cold kang, waiting for the young ones to earn some money so they can have a bowl of porridge. The young ones who work hard may earn money, but they may come back empty-handed, and they will lose their temper and quarrel everywhere. The old people had to swallow their tears as water when they had an empty stomach. Those women have to take care of both the old and the young, and they also have to deal with the young men who make money. Even when they were pregnant, they had to go about their business as usual, eating only steamed buns and sweet potato porridge; no, not only did they have to work as usual, but they also had to make porridge and do some work. Fortunately, both young and old were full and lay down. They had to hold a small kerosene lamp for others to wash, work, and mend. The house was so small and the walls were so broken. The cold wind got in through the cracks in the wall on one side and kept going out on the other side, taking away all the warmth. They only have some rags hanging on their bodies, and their stomachs are filled with a bowl or half a bowl of porridge, or they may have a six- or seven-month-old fetus. They have to work, and they have to feed the young and old first. They are all sick, and have lost their hair before they are thirty, but they cannot be idle for a moment, from illness to death; after death, the coffin must be collected from "good people". Those girls, sixteen or seventeen years old, had no pants and could only huddle around a piece of junk in the house - a natural prison - to help their mother with work and catch up on work. To go to the hut, they had to make sure there was no one in the courtyard before they dared to run out like thieves; all winter, they had not seen the sun or the blue sky. The ugly ones will inherit everything from their mothers in the future; the decent-looking ones, even they know, will be sold by their parents sooner or later to "enjoy their happiness"!

Just in such a courtyard, Huniu felt very proud. She was the only one who had food and clothing, didn't have to worry, and could walk around. She went in and out with her face held high. Not only did she feel her superiority, but she was also afraid that others would mess with her, so she ignored the miserable people. Most of the people who come here to do small business sell cheap things, such as bone scrapings, frozen cabbage, raw bean juice, and donkey and horse meat. They all come here to find their caregivers. Since Huniu moved in, those selling sheep head meat, smoked fish, hard noodle pastry, braised and fried tofu have also been shouting in front of the door. She held the bowl and raised her face as she carried these snacks into the room. The children looked at her with their iron-like fingers in their mouths, as if she were some kind of princess. She is here to enjoy, she cannot, will not, and does not want to see the suffering of others.

Xiangzi first disliked her behavior. He was born in a poor family and knew what poverty meant. He didn't want to eat those odds and ends, but it was a pity for the money. Secondly, what made him even more embarrassed was that he figured out something: she didn't allow him to pull the cart, but raising him with good food and food every day was like fattening a cow so that it could be milked! He completely became her thing. He has seen: a thin old female dog on the street, and when running errands, she also chooses a fat male dog. Thinking of this, he not only hated this kind of life, but also worried about himself. He knows how a hard-working man should protect his body. The body is everything. If he continues to live like this, he will one day become a skeleton with a dry skeleton, still the same size, and his chest will be completely empty. He shivered. If he was going to die, he would have to pull the cart right away, go out for a run, run for a day, and fall asleep when he came back, not knowing what was going on. If he didn't eat her good food, he wouldn't serve her and play with her. He decided to do this and couldn't give in anymore; if she was willing to pay for the car, fine; if she didn't want to, he would rent a car. Without saying a word, he made up his mind and went to rent a car. On the seventeenth day, he started to pull a car and rented it for "a full day". After two long transactions, he felt something wrong that he had never experienced before. His calves were tight and his hip bones were sore. He knew where the source of his illness was, but to comfort himself, he thought that it might be because he hadn't pulled a cart for more than 20 days and his legs were numb. After running a few times and stretching his legs, he might be fine.

Another deal was made, this time for a baby carriage, four of them went together. After picking up the handlebars, everyone let a tall man in his forties walk in front. The tall man smiled and admitted the truth. He knew that the three cars were "better" than him. He worked hard. Although he knew he couldn't outrun the three young men behind him, he refused to rely on his old age. After running for more than a mile, he was praised from behind: "What's the matter, do you need more energy? You really can't leave!" He gasped and replied: "I'm following your buddies in the car, is it okay if I'm slow?!" He was indeed not running slowly, and even Xiangzi had to exert 70% to 80% of his energy to keep up with him. His running style is not good-looking: He is tall and cannot bend down, and his waist and back seem to be a solid board, so his whole body has to be thrown forward; when his body is forward, his hands are obviously far behind; it is not like running, but like pulling something forward. His waist was rigid, so his hips had to move; his feet were almost stretched on the ground, twisting forward harder. The twisting was really slow, but you could tell by looking at it that he was exerting great effort. When he reached a roundabout place, he adjusted his body and turned hard, and everyone was sweating for him; he always seemed to just drive forward, regardless of whether the car could pass or not.

When he did, his sweat dripped down from the tip of his nose, ears and lips. After putting down the car, he straightened up quickly and grinned. When I took the money, my hands were shaking so much that I couldn't hold anything.

They are considered friends after walking together in a car, so the four of them put the car together. The Xiangzis wiped their sweat and continued to joke. The tall man wandered alone for a long time, coughed a lot, and spit out a lot of white foam. Then he seemed to have calmed down a little and began to talk to them: "It's over! I still have that heart. My waist and legs are not strong at all! No matter how I lift my waist, I can't lift my legs. I'm so worried!"

"You took those two steps just now, you must be too slow!" A short young man in his twenties took over: "Unyielding Heart, the three of us are great enough, who didn't sweat?" The tall man sighed a little proudly, but also as if he was ashamed.

"Let's just say that your running method is so close that I really need to teach you how to do it[1]

Yes, do you believe it? "Another young man said. "I'm old, I'm not joking. The tall man smiled and shook his head: "It doesn't matter how old you are, buddy!" Let me tell you the truth, those who work in our industry should not get married, seriously! Seeing that everyone was passing their ears, he lowered his voice a little: "Once we have a family, we will not be idle day and night. Let's finish playing!" Look at my waist, it’s straightened out, there’s no softness at all! It’s better not to run too fast, you’ll cough as soon as you grit your teeth, and your heart will feel spicy with wormwood! Don't talk about it, anyone who works in our profession will be a bachelor for the rest of his life! Even the damn little birds are in pairs, we are not allowed to have a family! Another thing I said is that after getting married, I will have one child a year, and now I have five! All with their mouths open waiting to eat! The fare is big, the food is expensive, and the business is hard, what can we do! It's better to be a bachelor for the rest of your life, live in a white house when you are wrong, get big bayberry sores, and accept your fate! When a person dies, he dies! Once a family of this thing is formed, even the older ones and the younger ones, several of them, will not be able to close their eyes even if they die! Do you think so? " he asked Xiangzi.

Xiangzi nodded but said nothing.

This time, a seat came. The short man negotiated the price first, but he gave in and called the tall man: "Big brother, go ahead! There are five children in this thing!"

The tall man smiled: "Okay, I'll run again! Ordinarily we can't do this! Come on, I'll bring back a lot of cakes! See you later, buddies!" Seeing the tall man walking away, the short man said to himself: "I can't even touch a daughter-in-law for the rest of my fucking life! There are four or five girls in his arms at the door of his fucking house!"

"Don't mention it for now," another young man took over. "You see, those who do this business should be careful. The tall man is right. Just put it this way, why do you want to start a family? Can you show it as a toy? No! Okay, this is the building! All day long, you are eating wormwood, and you are struggling. Even a good young man has to climb down!" Hearing this, Xiangzi pulled up the car and accosted him: "Go south, there is no business here."

"See you later!" the two young ones said together.

Xiangzi didn't seem to hear. I was kicking my legs while walking, and my hip shaft was indeed a little sore! I wanted to stop driving the car, but I simply didn’t have the courage to go home. The one at home is not a wife, but a blood-sucking goblin!

The sky was slowly getting longer, and he wandered around two or three more times, and it was just five o'clock. He handed over the car and spent some time in the teahouse. After drinking two pots of tea, he felt hungry and decided to eat outside and go home. After eating twelve taels of meat pie and a bowl of red bean and millet porridge, I slowly walked home while burping loudly. He must have known that there was a thunder waiting for him at home, but he was very calm; he made up his mind: he would not quarrel with her, he would not make trouble with her, he would fall asleep, and he would still come out to pull the cart tomorrow, whatever she liked!

As soon as he entered the house, Huniu was sitting in the outer room. She glanced at him, her face so heavy that she was about to drip. Xiangzi planned to join forces with Xini, so he pulled his long face and greeted her. But he was not used to doing this kind of thing, so he lowered his head and walked into the back room. She said nothing, and the hut was as quiet as an ancient cave in the mountains. The coughs, conversations, and children's cries of the neighbors in the courtyard were all very real and seemed to be far away, just like hearing distant sounds on the mountain.

Neither of them wanted to speak first. They lay down one after another with their mouths closed, like a pair of giant turtles that never made a sound. After waking up, Huniu spoke, her voice half annoyed and half smiling: "What have you been doing? You've been gone all day!"

"Going to pull the cart!" He said as if he was asleep, as if there was something stuck in his throat. "Oh! Stop sweating and feel itchy, you bitch! If you don't come back to eat the food I cooked for you, why don't you go around the world to make yourself comfortable? Don't offend me. My father is a bachelor, and I can do anything! If you dare to go out again tomorrow, I will hang myself for you. If I can tell you, I can do it!" "I can't be idle!"

"You won't go to the old man?"

"Don't go!"

"How arrogant!"

Xiangzi was really angry. He couldn't help but say what was in his heart. He couldn't bear it anymore: "Pull the car, buy your own car, and if anyone stops me, I will leave and never come back!" "Well--" This sound was spinning in her nose, very long and tortuous. In this voice, she expressed pride and contempt for Xiangzi, but there was also a detour in her heart. She knew that Xiangzi was a tough guy, albeit an honest one. The words of a tough guy are never spoken in jest. It was so easy to catch him, so we can't let him go casually. He is an ideal person: honest, thrifty, and strong; given her appearance and age, it is really difficult to get such a treasure again. Being able to be both strong and soft is the key, and she had to irritate him: "I also know that you want to be strong, but you also have to know that I really love you. If you don't want to go to the old man, this is what I do: I will go to him. She is his daughter anyway, so it doesn't matter if she is embarrassed."

"If the old man wants us, I have to pull the cart!" Xiangzi said it home.

Huniu was speechless for a long time. She didn't expect Xiangzi to be so smart. Although his words were so simple, it was clear that he would no longer fall for her trap, and he was not a stupid ass. Therefore, she felt that it was more and more interesting. She had to put in some effort to win over this grown-up or big thing who would get upset when he got anxious. She couldn't push too hard, it wasn't easy to find such a big thing. She had to loosen and tighten him so that he could never escape from her grasp. "Well, you love to pull a cart, but I can't. You have to swear not to pull a chartered cart, and you have to come back every day; you see, if I don't see you for a day, I will panic! Promise me, you will come back early every night!"

Xiangzi remembered what the tall man said during the day! I stared into the darkness with my eyes open, and saw a group of people pulling carts, doing small business, and working hard. Their backs couldn't collapse and they were pulling their legs. He will be like that in the future. But it was not easy for him to quarrel with her anymore. As long as he could pull the cart, he had already won. "I always break up the meeting!" He agreed.

Although she said that, she was not very enthusiastic about going to Fourth Master Liu. Father and daughter naturally quarrel often on weekdays, but the situation is different now. They can't just talk about it for a while, because she is no longer a member of the Liu family. A married woman is always somewhat estranged from her parents. She didn't dare go back to the court. What if the old man really turns his back on him and refuses to recognize him? She will take matters into her own hands. If he refuses to let go of his property, there is nothing she can do. Even if there were people mediating on the side, when there was no other choice, they could only persuade her to come back. She had her own home.

Xiangzi went to pull the cart as usual, and she walked around the house alone. She wanted to get dressed and go to her father several times, but she thought about it but was too lazy to move her hands. She was in trouble. For your own comfort and happiness, you have to go back; for your own dignity, it is right not to go. If the old man calmed down, she would just drag Xiangzi to Renhe Factory, and she would naturally teach him to have something to do without having to pull a cart, and she would be able to securely take over his father's business. Her heart lit up. What if the old man is stubborn to the end? She was disgraced, no, not only was she disgraced, but she also had to become a coachman's wife; she, hum! There is no difference from the group of women in the courtyard. Her heart suddenly became dark. She almost regretted marrying Xiangzi. No matter how strong he was, if her father didn't nod, he would be a cart puller all his life. Thinking of this, she even wanted to go back to her parents' home alone and break up with Xiangzi. She couldn't lose everything for him. Then I thought about it, and the joy of following Xiangzi was beyond words. She sat on the bed, dazed and vague, thinking about the happiness after marriage; her whole body was like a big red flower, blooming in the sunshine with a warm fragrance. No, I can’t bear to leave Xiangzi. No matter if he pulls a cart or begs for food, you will always have to follow him. Look, look at those women in the courtyard, if they can bear it, she can bear it. After all, she didn't want to go to Liu's house.

Xiangzi, since he left Renhe Factory, refused to walk on Xi'anmen Street again. In the past two days when he was driving a truck, he would always rush to the east city when he went out, so that the west city would be full of people and factory cars, making it awkward to meet them. On this day, after collecting the car, he deliberately passed by the factory gate for no other reason than to take a look. Huniu's words were still in his mind, as if he wanted to test whether he had the courage to return to the factory. If Huniu could make an agreement with the old man, he would first try to dare to walk on this street before returning to the factory. Pulling his hat down, he slipped away to the factory, lest he be seen by acquaintances. Seeing the light of the car door from a distance, he felt very sad for some reason. I remembered the time when I first came here, the temptation of Huniu, and the scene on my birthday night. These are all very clear, like some pictures floating in front of my eyes. Between these pictures, there are others, clearly and briefly sandwiched between these pictures: Western Mountain, Camel, Cao's House, Detective... They are all distinct, terrifying, and connected together. These pictures were so clear that he felt a little dazed in his heart, almost as if he was really looking at a few pictures and forgot that he was in them. When he thought about his relationship with them, his mind became confused. They suddenly rotated up and down, left and right, in a messy and confusing manner. He could not remember why he should suffer these tortures and grievances. The time these scenes took up seemed to be very long, but also seemed to be very short. He couldn't tell how old he was. He just felt that he was much older than when he first came to Renhe Factory. At that time, he was full of hope; now, he is full of worry. He didn't know why, but the pictures never deceived him.

In front of him were the people and the factory. He stood on the other side of the street and stared blankly at the extremely bright electric light. As I looked at it, my heart suddenly moved. The four golden characters under the lamp - Renhe and Depot - have changed! He was illiterate, but he remembered what the first character looked like: it looked like two sticks joined together, neither a fork nor a triangle, such a simple and strange character. Find the word based on the sound, which is probably "人". This "person" changed his appearance and became "benevolence" - a word even stranger than "person". He couldn't think of any reason. Looking at the east and west rooms—the two rooms he could never forget—there were no lights on.

He was so impatient that he lowered his head and walked home. As I walked, I wondered, could it be that the people and the factory had fallen out? He had to inquire slowly, without saying anything to his wife first. Back home, Huniu was eating melon seeds in the house to relieve her boredom. "It's so late again!" There was no anger on her face. "Let me tell you, I can't stand it! You go out for the whole day. I don't even dare to move out of my house. I'm a poor man in the yard for fear of losing my things. I don't even have a place to say a word all day long. No, I'm not a stupid person. You have to think of something, this won't work!" Xiangzi said nothing.

"You're talking! Why do you want to tease people? Do you have a mouth? Do you have a mouth?" Her words became faster and crisper as she spoke, sounding like a cannon. Xiangzi still had nothing to say.

"That's great," she was really anxious, but she also looked a little helpless. Her face was neither crying nor smiling, she was so anxious that she couldn't do her best. "Let's buy two cars and rent them out. Is it okay for you to eat at home? Is that okay?" "Two cars cost thirty cents a day, which is not enough for food! Rent one and I will pull one myself, so that's fine!" Xiangzi spoke slowly but naturally; when he heard about buying a car, he forgot everything.

"Isn't that the same thing? You're still homeless!"

"That's okay," Xiangzi's idea seemed to follow the problem of the car, "rent one out and rent it for the whole day. I'll drive that one myself for half a day and rent it out for another half day. If I rent it during the day, I'll go out early in the morning and come back at three o'clock; if I rent it late, I'll go out at three o'clock and come back at night. That's good!" She nodded. "Let me think about it. If I don't have any better ideas, I'll just do it."

Xiangzi was very happy. If this idea can be realized, he will be in his own car again. Although my wife bought it for me, as I slowly saved up money, I was able to buy another car myself. It was only then that he realized that Hu Niu had some benefits. He actually smiled at her, an innocent and heartfelt smile, as if he had written off all the previous hardships and changed into a new world with a smile. It was as easy and happy as changing a piece of clothing!

[1]

Pout, I lost. Frustrated.

Remember to take a break when you are tired from reading~

Public account: Good Cat Ning Li

E-book search and download

Book list sharing

Book Friends Learning and Exchange

Website: Chenjin Bookstore https://www.chenjin5.com

E-book search and download

E-book packaging resource sharing

Learning Resource Sharing Seventeen

Xiangzi slowly found out about Renhe and the factory: Mr. Liu sold some of the cars and gave the rest to a famous car owner in Xicheng. Xiangzi could guess that the old man was old and he couldn't continue the business without his daughter to help him, so he simply closed it and took the money to enjoy himself. Where has he gone? Xiangzi didn't find out.

He couldn't tell whether he should like the news or not. Due to his own ambition and arrogance, Fourth Master Liu was determined to abandon his daughter, so Huniu's plan was completely in vain; he could honestly pull a cart to earn a living, without relying on anyone. Judging from Fourth Master Liu's small fortune, it's really a pity; who knows how Old Man Liu managed to get the money out, as he and Huniu didn't even get a single copper in their hands.

However, now that the matter has come to this, he has not thought much about it, let alone been tempted by it. This is what he thinks. Anyway, his strength is his own, and if he is willing to work hard to make money, eating will not be a problem. He told Huniu simply without emotion at all. She was moved. After hearing this, she immediately saw her future clearly - it was over! It's all over! I have no choice but to be the wife of a coachman for the rest of my life! She can never escape from this courtyard! She thought that her father would marry another wife, but she never expected that she would leave so tremblingly. If the old man really marries a little wife, Hu Niu will fight for the property, and maybe she can contact her stepmother and get some benefits... There are many ideas, as long as the old man keeps running the car factory. I never expected that the old man would be so determined and vicious, turning all his property into cash and hiding it secretly! She originally thought that her falling out with him was just a ploy and she would make peace soon. She knew that the relationship between the people and the factory was dependent on her. Who would have thought that the old man would let go of the factory? !

There is news of spring, and the buds on the branches are obviously red and fat. But in this large courtyard, spring does not arrive on the branches first, and there is not a single flower or tree here. Here, the spring breeze first blew up some small pockmarks on the ice in the courtyard, blew out some fishy smell from the filthy soil, and blew the scraps and shredded paper to the corner of the wall, creating a small whirlwind. People in the courtyard are in trouble all the time. Only now did the old people dare to come out to bask in the warmth; only now did the young girls lose some of the soot on their noses, revealing some reddish-yellow skin; Only now did the women dare to drive their children to the courtyard to play without feeling ashamed; Only now did the children dare to pull a piece of torn paper as a kite, and run around the courtyard casually, without cracking a few cuts in their little black hands from the cold. However, the porridge factory stopped making pots, the people giving relief stopped giving out rice, and the doers of good deeds stopped giving out money; it seemed that the poor people were handed over to the spring breeze and spring light! It is when spring wheat is just as green as grass and old grain is in short supply, the price of grain and rice rises as usual. The days are getting longer, and even the elderly cannot lie down early to deceive their hungry stomachs with dreams. Spring has arrived in the human world, and it has only increased difficulties in this large courtyard. Elderly lice--particularly powerful--sometimes crawl outside the cotton pads of the elderly or children to enjoy a little bit of spring!

Huniu looked at the melting ice in the courtyard and the tattered clothes, smelled the complex and slightly hot smell, and listened to the lamentations of the old people and the cries of the children, and her heart felt cold. In the winter, people hid in their houses, and dirty things were frozen on the ice; now, people come out, and things show their original shape. Even the broken brick walls are falling down, as if they are ready to collapse when it rains. The courtyard is full of green flowers, with poor flowers blooming, and they are several times uglier than in winter. Huh, just at this moment, she felt that she would live here forever; her little money would eventually be spent, and Xiangzi was just a cart driver!

Asking Xiangzi to look after the house, she went to Nanyuan to find her aunt and inquire about the old man. The aunt said that the fourth master did come to her house once, probably on the twelfth day of the first lunar month, firstly to thank her, and secondly to tell her that he planned to go to Tianjin or Shanghai for fun. He said: I have lived my whole life without ever leaving the capital, so I can’t be considered a hero after all. While I still have some breath, I go to various places to see things. Besides, he himself has no shame in wandering around the city anymore because his daughter has disgraced him. The aunt's report was just this, and her judgment was even simpler: the old man might have really gone out, or he might just be talking about it, and he was hiding in a secluded place; who knows!

When she got home, she threw herself on the kang and started crying. She cried for a long time without any hypocrisy or cunning, until her eyeballs were swollen.

After crying, she wiped her tears and said to Xiangzi: "Okay, you are so arrogant! I have to follow you! I bet my money on the wrong place. Just marry the chicken and follow the chicken, don't say anything. I'll give you a hundred yuan, and you can buy a car!"

Here, she made a conscious decision: she originally wanted to buy two cars, one for Xiangzi to pull and one to rent. Now she changed her mind and just bought one and asked Xiangzi to pull it; she still kept the rest of the money in her own hands. The money is in her hands, and the power is also in her, but she refuses to spend it all; what if Xiangzi changes his mind after spending all the money to buy a car? This cannot be ignored! Besides, Old Man Liu left like this, which made her feel that nothing was reliable. No one could know for sure what would happen tomorrow. It was best to have fun and have some money in hand. She could eat whatever she liked. She was always used to eating snacks. Use what Xiangzi earns - he is a first-class coachman - to live on, and then have the little money of your own to supplement your pocket, and focus on the immediate pleasure first. One day the money will be spent, but people will not live forever! Marrying a cart driver—even though it was a last resort—had already wronged me. I could no longer ask him for money every day with my hands down, but I didn’t have a single copper in my pocket. This decision made her a little happier. Although she knew that the future would be terrible, she would not fall head over heels immediately at the moment; it was like walking towards sunset, the distance was already dark, but there was still some light in front of her, so she should take advantage of the light and take a few more steps.

Xiangzi didn't argue with her, just buy one. As long as it's your own car, you can earn sixty or seventy cents a day, enough to chew grain. Not only did he not argue, he also felt a little happy. All the hard work I endured in the past was just to buy a car. Now that I can buy it again, what else can I say? Of course, if a car is used to feed two people, there will be no money left over; the car may become old, and there is no preparation to buy a new car. Danger! However, since buying a car is so difficult, you should be satisfied if you can buy it now, so why think so far ahead!

Erqiangzi in the courtyard is about to sell a car. Er Qiangzi sold his nineteen-year-old daughter Xiao Fuzi to a soldier last summer. Sold for two hundred yuan. After Xiaofuzi left, Erqiangzi became quite wealthy for a while. He redeemed all his pawns and made some new clothes. The whole family was dressed neatly. Erqiang's wife was the shortest and ugliest woman in the whole hospital, with a protruding forehead, big cheeks, no hair on her head, old teeth exposed, and her face was covered with freckles, which made her look disgusting. She also had red eyelids and put on a new blue shirt while crying for her daughter. Er Qiangzi had always had a bad temper. After selling his daughter, he often drank several glasses of wine. After drinking, tears would form in his eyes, and he was very easy to find trouble. Although Sister-in-law Erqiang had a new coat and had enough to eat, her joy was not worth the pain, and she was beaten almost twice as often as before. Er Qiangzi is over forty and plans not to pull carts anymore. So I bought a pair of baskets and a grocery pick, including melons, fruits, pears, peanuts and cigarettes. The goods were very complete. After two months of business, there was a thick pile of accounts. Not only was the loss made, but the loss was a lot. If he is used to pulling a cart, he will not know how to deal with business; pulling a cart is a hit-and-miss thing, success will be achieved and failure will bring him down; he will not know how to deal with the hardships of doing small business. The man who pulled the cart knew how to get things on credit, so he was reluctant to let his acquaintances owe money; if he owed money, it would be difficult to get it back. In this way, the good-looking master couldn't get him, and everyone who dealt with him was greedy for credit and refused to give him credit, so he had no choice but to lose money. He feels sad when he loses money; when he feels sad, he drinks more. When he was drunk, he often quarreled with the patrolmen outside and was murderous at home with his wife and children. I offended the patrolman and beat my wife, all because of alcohol. When he woke up from the wine, he felt very regretful and miserable. When he thought about it again, he had to pay for this money in exchange for his daughter, and he was paying for it in vain, and he was drinking and beating people. He felt that he was not a human being. At this time, he could sleep for a day and leave his worries to Meng.

He decided to give up the business and went to pull the car instead, and he couldn't let all the money go to waste. He bought a car. When he was drunk, he was unreasonable. In his sobriety, he was above all respectable. Because he loves dignity, he often puts on airs of poverty and has a plan for everything. He bought a new car and was dressed neatly. He felt that he was a high-class coachman. He had to drink good tea and pull a decent seat. He could show off his car and his white trousers at the entrance of the car and chat with everyone, never bothering to do business. Sometimes he slaps the car with a new blue cloth duster, sometimes he stamps his new white-soled double-faced shoes, sometimes he looks at the tip of his nose and stands by the car with a smile, waiting for others to praise his car, and then he starts talking and talks endlessly. He can spend a day or two "soaking" like this. When he got into a good seat, his legs couldn't run without the strength of his car and clothes! This made him very sad. Whenever I feel sad, I think of my daughter, so I have to go drink. In this way, all his money was put away, leaving only the car.

Around the beginning of winter, he got drunk again. As soon as they entered the house, the two sons—one thirteen and one eleven years old—wanted to hide outside. This trick overturned him and gave each of them a kick. Erqiang's wife said something, and he ran towards her and kicked her in the stomach. She lay on the ground without making a sound for a long time. The two children were anxious. One picked up the coal shovel and the other picked up the rolling pin, and fought for their lives with their father. The three of them fought together and stepped on Erqiang's wife several times. The neighbors came over and finally pushed Er Qiangzi down on the kang. The two children hugged their mother and cried. Erqiang's wife woke up, but she still couldn't get off the ground. On the third day of the twelfth lunar month, she stopped breathing and was wearing the blue shirt she made when selling her daughter. Erqiang's wife's mother-in-law didn't agree, so she had to go to court. After much persuasion from her friends, her parents gave in, and Erqiangzi agreed to send her away properly and give her family fifteen yuan. He took the car out and deposited sixty yuan. Next year, he wanted to sell the car, but he had no hope of redeeming it himself. When he was drunk, he wanted to sell his son, but no one wanted him. He also looked for Xiao Fuzi's husband. They didn't recognize him as a father-in-law at all, so there was no need to say anything else.

Xiangzi knew the history of this car and didn't like it very much. There were too many cars, so why buy just this one? This was an unlucky car. This car was bought in exchange for his daughter, but he only sold it because he beat his wife to death! Huniu didn't think so. She wanted to spend her early eighties to buy it. It was cheap! The car has only been driven for half a year, and even the color of the belt has not changed much, and it was authentically made by Dechengjia, a famous factory in Xicheng. Why don’t you pay fifty or sixty yuan to buy a 70% new car? She couldn't bear the bargain. She also knew that soon after the New Year, money was tight everywhere, and Erqiangzi would not sell it for a big price, but she was eager to use the money. She went to see the car in person, negotiated the price with Er Qiangzi, and paid the money; Xiangzi had to wait for the car to be pulled, saying nothing, and it was inconvenient to say anything, because the money was not his own. After buying the car, he looked at it carefully and found that it was indeed very strong. But he always felt a little awkward. What made him most unhappy was the black-painted car body, which was paired with a white copper body. When Er Qiangzi drove the car, it was black and white, which looked very beautiful. Xiangzi always felt that this was a bit depressing, like wearing a filial piety. He really wanted to change his condom to something earthy yellow or moon-white, or something that would make it less sober. But he didn't discuss it with Huniu, so as not to invite her to gossip again.

When the car was pulled out, everyone paid special attention, and some people actually called it "the little widow." Xiangzi felt unhappy. He tried his best not to think about it, but the car followed him all day long, and his hair was cooing, as if something was going to go wrong at some point. Sometimes I suddenly think of Er Qiangzi and his encounter with Er Qiangzi. It seems that he is not pulling a car, but a coffin. In this car, he often saw some ghost figures, as if they were ghosts.

However, nothing happened since he got into the car, although he was feeling uneasy in his heart. The weather is getting warmer and warmer, and you can wear single pants and a jacket without having to wear cotton clothes. There is not much spring in Peiping. The sky is getting so long that it almost makes people impatient, and everyone feels sleepy. Xiangzi went out early in the morning, and by four or five o'clock, he felt that he had exerted enough effort. The sun is still high. He didn't want to run anymore, but he also refused to put the car away, and he yawned long and lazily hesitantly.

The days are so long. If Xiangzi feels tired and bored, Huniu will be even more lonely at home. In winter, she could keep warm by the stove and listen to the sound of the wind outside. Although she was depressed, she still had a little bit of "it's better not to go out" to masturbate. Now that the stove has been moved to the eaves, there is literally nothing to do in the house. The courtyard was so dirty and smelly, there was not even a blade of green grass. When I went to the street, I didn't worry about the neighbors. Even if I went to buy something, I had to go straight there, and I didn't dare to wander around for a while. She was like a bee trapped in the room, staring at the sunshine outside but unable to fly out. She could not talk to the women in the courtyard. What they said was that the parents were short-lived, and she was used to being wild and toneless. She didn't like to talk about it, and she didn't like to listen to it either. Their grievances come from the pain in life, and every little thing can lead to tears; her grievances come from dissatisfaction with life. She has no tears to shed, but wants to scold someone and vent her sullenness. She and they can't understand each other, so it's best to do their own thing without talking to each other[1]

.

It wasn't until the middle of April that she found a companion. Erqiangzi's daughter Xiaofuzi is back. Xiaofuzi’s “person”[2]

It's an officer. He set up a very simple home everywhere, spent 1,200 on a young girl, and bought a large plank and two chairs, and then he could live happily. When the army was transferred elsewhere, he walked away and put the people and the planks where they were. Spending so much, 1,200 yuan, you won't suffer a loss in a year and a half. Just talking about small things such as washing clothes, cooking, etc. If you hire a servant, wouldn't it cost ten or eight yuan to eat and earn a month? If you marry a girl like this, she will be a servant, you can sleep with her, and you will be sure to be clean and not sick. I'm so happy that I can cut her a large floral blouse for a lot of money. If she's not happy, there's nothing she can do if she has to squat at home without seeing anything. When he left for work, he didn't regret the planks and one or two chairs at all, because she had to find a way to pay the two months' rent that was owed. Selling the planks and other things might not be enough to pay off the debt.

Xiao Fuzi sold the shop floor and paid the rent, and returned home wearing only a floral foreign cloth shirt and a pair of silver earrings.

After Er Qiangzi sold the car, in addition to paying back the deposit and interest, he still had about twenty yuan left. Sometimes he feels that he has lost his wife in middle age and is very pitiful. When others don't pity him, he drinks a glass of wine and good food by himself to feel sorry for himself and masturbate. At this time, he seemed to have a grudge against money and spent all his money. Sometimes he thought that he should work harder to pull the cart and raise the two boys properly, so that he would have some hope for the future. When he thought about his son, he bought a lot of food for them both. Seeing them gobbling up the food, he said to himself with tears in his eyes: "Motherless child! Poor child! Dad has to work hard, and it is the child who is running! I am not surrendered. It doesn't matter whether I am full or not. I have to let the child eat enough first! Eat! Don't forget me when you grow up!" At this time, he also spent a lot of money. Slowly, all the twenty yuan was paid out.

When he ran out of money and caught up with him drinking and losing his temper, he would not care what the children ate for a day or two. The children had no choice but to think of ways to get a few coins and buy something to eat. They would work as deacons for people who were doing official and white things, and would pick up some scraps of copper and scrap paper from the carts. Sometimes they could buy a few sesame cakes, sometimes they could only buy a pound of wheat stubble and white potatoes, and even swallowed the belts and whiskers. Sometimes only two of them had a big copper, so they had to buy peanuts or iron broad beans. Although they couldn't stave off hunger, they could chew them for a while.

Xiao Fuzi came back, and they met their relatives. Each of them hugged one of her legs. They had nothing to say and only smiled at her through tears. My mother is gone, my sister is my mother!

Er Qiangzi had no expression for his daughter's return. When she came back, there was an extra person to eat. However, seeing his two sons so happy, he had to admit that there should be a woman in the family to cook and wash clothes for everyone. It's not easy for him to say anything, just go wherever he goes.

Xiao Fuzi is not ugly. Although he was very thin before, he has gained some weight and become taller since joining that officer. He has a round face and well-proportioned eyebrows. There is nothing particularly outstanding about him, but he is solid and not ugly. The upper lip is very short. Whether you want to be angry or smile, you open your lips first, revealing some very white and neat teeth. That officer just loved her teeth. Showing these teeth, she looked a little stupid and thoughtless, and at the same time she seemed a little coquettish. This air made her - like all girls who are poor but not ugly - like flowers and plants, which are selected for sale in the market if they have the slightest fragrance or color.

Huniu always ignored the people in the courtyard, but she regarded Xiao Fuzi as a friend. Firstly, Xiao Fuzi looked pretty, secondly she had a floral robe, and thirdly Huniu thought that since she was married to an officer, she had seen the world, so she was willing to associate with her. It is not easy for women to make friends, but they are quick to make friends; within a few days, the two of them had become close friends. Huniu loves to eat snacks. Whenever she gets some melon seeds or other things, she always calls Xiao Fuzi over and eats them while laughing. While joking, Xiao Fuzi showed his white teeth stupidly and told many things that Huniu had never heard of. She did not enjoy the blessings of being with the officer, but the officer was happy and took her back to the restaurant and to see a show, so she had something to say and said it to make Hu Niu envious. There are many things she can't say: for her, this is ravage; for Huniu, this is enjoyment. Huniu begged her, saying that she was embarrassed to say it, but also embarrassed to refuse. She has seen the erotic palace, but Huniu has never seen it. Huniu heard things like this once and liked to hear them a second time. She regarded Xiao Fuzi as the cutest, most enviable, and worthy of envy. After hearing that, and looking at her appearance, age, and husband, she felt that her life was too wronged. She has never had youth, and there is no hope for the future. Now, Xiangzi is as dead as a brick! The more she was dissatisfied with Xiangzi, the more she loved Xiaofuzi. Although Xiaofuzi was so poor and pitiful, in her eyes, he was a man who had experienced blessings and had seen battle formations. Even if he died immediately, he would not be unjust. In her opinion, Xiaofuzi represents the enjoyment that a woman should have.

Huniu didn't seem to notice Xiao Fuzi's hardship. Xiao Fuzi didn't bring anything back, but she had to take care of her two brothers no matter how tough her father was. Where would she get the money to prepare meals for them?

Er Qiangzi got drunk and had an idea: "If you really care about your brothers, you can find a way to make money to support them! They are all pointing at me. I have to work as a livestock for others all the time. I have to eat first; can I run on an empty stomach? Teach me to fall to death. What do you think of Coke? If you are idle, you are also idle. If you have something ready-made, why don't you sell it?"

Looking at his father who was as hungry as a drunk cat, at himself, and at his two younger brothers who were as hungry as mice, Xiao Fuzi was left crying. Tears couldn't move her father, and tears couldn't feed her brother. She had to come up with something more real. In order to feed her brothers, she had to sell her own meat. Hugging her little brother, her tears fell on his hair, and he said: "Sister, I'm hungry!" Sister! My sister is a piece of meat and I have to give it to my brother!

Instead of comforting Xiao Fuzi, Huniu was willing to help her: Huniu was willing to use some capital to teach her to dress up neatly, and then return the money to her. Huniu was willing to lend her a place because her own room was too dirty, and Huniu's house had Xiangzi at least, and since there were two rooms, everyone had a place to turn around. Xiangzi will not come back during the day, so Huniu is happy to help her friends, and she can see more and understand more, what she lacks and what she wants to do but cannot do. Every time Xiao Fuzi used the room, Huniu made a condition that she must give her two cents. Friends are friends, things are things. For Xiao Fuzi's sake, she has to clean up the house well. She has to work and spend some money. Shouldn't she spend money on buying brooms and dustpans? Two cents is by no means too much, because we are friends, so we can meet like this.

Xiao Fuzi showed some teeth and tears fell into his stomach.

Xiangzi didn't know anything, but he couldn't sleep well again. Huniu "fulfilled" Xiao Fuzi, and she also wanted to find the lost youth in Xiangzi.

[1]

To have a conversation is to have a conversation.

[2]

People, here refers to men. This title is limited to informal relationships between men and women.

eighteen

In June, there was almost no sound in the courtyard during the day. The children spent the early hours carrying broken baskets to pick up whatever they could find; by nine o'clock, the poisonous sun was already burning their skinny backs, so they had no choice but to bring back what they could find and eat whatever food the adults could give them. Then, if the older ones can find the smallest capital in the world, they will buy and pick up some ice cores to sell. If you can't find this little capital, you can go out of the city to take a bath in the moat, steal a few pieces of coal at the station, or catch some dragonflies and cicadas to sell to the children of wealthy families. The younger ones didn't dare to run far away, so they all went to the area with trees outside the door to pick up locust insects and dig "King Kong" [1]

Go play or something. The children all went out, and so did the men. The women were all naked in the house, and no one wanted to come out; not because they were afraid of looking bad, but because the ground in the courtyard was already burning their feet in the sun.

It wasn't until the sun was about to set that the men and children came back one after another. At this time, there were wall shadows and some cool breeze in the courtyard, and the house was surrounded by the heat of the day, like fire cages; everyone was sitting in the courtyard, waiting for the women to cook. At this moment, the courtyard was very lively, like a market without goods. Everyone had been suffering from the heat for a day, their eyes were red, and they were not in a good temper. They were hungry, and they all looked anxious and pale. If someone says something wrong, some will beat their children, and some will beat their wives; even if they can't beat them, they will scold them. This commotion continued until everyone had finished their meal. Some children lie down in the courtyard and fall asleep, while others go to the street to have sex[2]

. After the adults had eaten, their tempers became much calmer, and the talkative ones only gathered in groups and talked about the hard work of the day. Those who have no food to eat must have nowhere to pawn or sell—even if they have something to pawn or sell—because it’s getting dark. No matter how hot the room is, the man will just lie on the kang and remain silent, maybe yelling loudly. With tears in her eyes, the woman tried to accommodate everyone, but she encountered many obstacles before she was able to borrow a twenty-dollar piece of paper. Holding this precious note, she went out to get some mixed noodles and a pot of porridge for everyone to eat.

Huniu and Xiaofuzi are not in this order of life. Hu Niu is pregnant, this time it’s true. Xiangzi goes out early in the morning, and she always doesn't get up until eight or nine o'clock; it is a traditional erroneous belief that you should not exercise too much during pregnancy. Huniu not only believes in this, but also uses it to show some identity: everyone has to get up early to operate, but she can lie down as leisurely as she likes. At night, she took a small bench and sat outside the street gate in a windy place. She didn't come in until almost everyone in the courtyard was asleep. She didn't bother to chat with everyone.

Xiao Fuzi also got up late, but she had other reasons. She was afraid that the men in the yard would look at her sideways, so she didn't dare to leave the house until they were all gone. During the day, she either looks for Hu Niu or goes out for a walk, because her advertisement is herself. At night, in order to avoid the attention of people in the courtyard, she went out to walk around the streets, and after asking everyone to lie down, she sneaked in secretly.

Among men, Xiangzi and Erqiangzi are exceptions. Xiangzi was afraid of entering the courtyard, and even more afraid of going inside. The poor comments from everyone in the courtyard made him panic, and he wanted to find a quiet place to sit alone. Inside the house, he felt more and more that Hu Niu looked like a tigress. It was so hot and suffocating in the hut, and with the tiger in the mix, he seemed to be out of breath as soon as he entered. A few days ago, he had no choice but to come back early in order to avoid Huniu making noises with him. Recently, with Xiao Fuzi as her company, she doesn't control him much anymore, so he comes back later.

As for Er Qiangzi, he rarely comes home these days. He knew his daughter's business and was too embarrassed to enter that street gate. But he couldn't stop her, he knew he didn't have the strength to feed his children. He had no choice but not to come back, out of sight and out of mind. Sometimes he hates his daughter. If Xiao Fuzi were a boy, I guarantee he wouldn't have to make a fool of himself like this; since she was a girl, why did she come to him! Sometimes he pities his daughter, who sells herself to support her two younger brothers! Hate it or hurt it, he can't help it. When he got drunk and had no money in his hand, he no longer hated her and felt sorry for her. He came back and asked her for money. At this time, he sees his daughter as someone who can make money, and since he is a father, it is legitimate for him to ask for money from her. At this time, he also thought about his dignity: Didn't everyone look down on Xiao Fuzi? Her father didn't spare her. He forced her to take the money and cursed her, as if he was scolding everyone - Er Qiangzi was not wrong, Xiao Fuzi was born shameless.

He was noisy, but Xiao Fuzi didn't even express his anger. Huniu, on the other hand, half scolded and half persuaded him to get rid of him. Naturally, he had to take some money from his hand. This kind of money only allowed him to drink again, because if he saw them sober, he would jump into the river or hang himself.

On June 15th, it was crazy hot. As soon as the sun came up, the ground seemed to be on fire. Some gray air that looks like clouds but not clouds, like mist but not mist floats low in the air, making people feel suffocated. There was no wind at all. Xiangzi looked at the gray-red sky in the courtyard, and planned to stay late - not go out until four in the afternoon; if he couldn't make any money, he could stay late until dawn: no matter what, it would be better at night than during the day.

Huniu urged him to go out, fearing that he would be a hindrance at home, in case Xiaofuzi brought a guest. "Why do you think it's better to be at home? Even the walls in the house are hot at noon!"

Without saying a word, he drank a gourd of cold water and walked out.

The willow trees on the street seemed to be sick, with leaves hung with a layer of dust and curled up on the branches; the branches were too lazy to move, hanging down listlessly. There was not a single drop of water on the road, which was dry and glowing white. The dust on the sidewalk flew up high and connected with the gray air in the sky, forming a vicious formation of gray sand that burned the faces of passers-by. It's dry everywhere, it's hot everywhere, and it's stuffy everywhere. The whole old city is like a well-fired brick kiln, making people breathless. Dogs lay on the ground sticking out their red tongues, the nostrils of mules and horses dilated extremely wide, vendors did not dare to shout, and the asphalt road melted away; even the bronze plaques in front of the shops seemed to be melted by the sun. The street was unusually quiet, except for the irritating monotonous tinkling sounds coming from the copper and iron shops. The people pulling the carts knew that they would have nothing to eat if they were not active, and they were too lazy to do business: some put the carts in a shady place, set up the shed, and sat on the carts to take a nap; some went into small teahouses to drink tea; some did not pull out the carts at all, but came to the street to see if there was any possibility of getting out of the carts. Those who were in charge of the business, even the most beautiful young men, were willing to be embarrassed and did not dare to run anymore. They only lowered their heads and walked slowly. Every well platform has become their savior. No matter how many steps they have taken, they will run to the well when they see it. If they can't catch up with the newly drawn water, they will fill the trough with the donkeys and horses. Others, because of heat stroke or fever, would fall to the ground while walking and never get up.

Even Xiangzi is a little timid! After pulling the empty cart for a few steps, he felt that he was surrounded by heat from his face to his feet, and even the backs of his hands were sweating. However, when he saw Zuo'er, he still wanted to pull away, thinking that maybe there would be some wind while running. He made a deal and pulled up the car, only to realize that the weather was so severe that no one was allowed to work. As soon as I ran, I couldn't breathe, and my lips were burnt. Even though I was not thirsty, I wanted to drink water when I saw it. If I don't run, the poisonous flower's handles and back will be cracked by the sun. He managed to pull it into place, and his pants and jacket were completely wrapped around him. Pick up the banana fan and fan it. The wind is hot. He had already drank a lot of cold water, but he ran to the teahouse again. After drinking two pots of hot tea, he felt calmer. As soon as the tea enters the mouth, sweat comes out of the body, as if the body is already empty and will not store any more water. He didn't dare to move anymore.

After sitting for a long time, he felt tired. Not daring to go out and having nothing to do, he felt as if the weather was deliberately trying to get in his way. No, he couldn't give in. He has been driving a car for more than one day, and this is not the first time in summer. He can't just "soak" for a day in vain. I wanted to go out, but I was too lazy to move my legs, and my body was very soft, as if I hadn't had a good bath. Although I was sweating a lot, my heart was not happy yet. After sitting for a while, he couldn't sit still anymore. Sitting would make him sweat anyway, so he might as well go out and give it a try.

As soon as I came out, I realized my mistake. The layer of gray in the sky has dissipated, and it is no longer depressing, but the sunshine is also much stronger: no one dares to look up to see where the sun is, only to feel that it is dazzling everywhere, in the sky, on the roof, on the walls, on the ground, it is all bright white, with a little red in it; from top to bottom, the whole thing is like a huge fire mirror, and every ray of light is like the focus of the fire mirror, making things ignite. In this white light, every color is dazzling, every sound is unpleasant, and every smell is mixed with the fishy stench evaporated from the ground. There seemed to be no people on the street, and the road seemed to have suddenly widened a lot. It was empty and not cool at all, and the white flowers were scary. Xiangzi didn't know how to recover. He lowered his head, pulled the cart, and walked forward very slowly. He had no idea or purpose. He was groggy, with a layer of sticky sweat on his body and a rancid smell. After walking for a while, the soles of my feet and my shoes and socks were stuck together, as if I were stepping on a piece of wet mud, which made me feel very sad. I didn't want to drink any more water at first, but when I saw the well, I couldn't help but go over and take another sip, not to quench my thirst, but to enjoy the coolness of the well water. From my mouth to my stomach, I suddenly felt cold, and the pores on my body suddenly shrank, and I shivered, which was very comfortable. After drinking, he burped repeatedly, and the water was rising!

Walking for a while, sitting for a while, he was still too lazy to do business. Until noon, he still couldn't feel hungry. I want to eat something as usual, but the sight of food makes me sick. The stomach is almost filled with all kinds of water, and sometimes there will be a slight sound in the stomach, like a mule drinking water, and the stomach will make a light sound.

Comparing winter with summer, Xiangzi always thinks winter is more terrible. He didn't expect that summer would be so uncomfortable. After spending more than one summer in the city, he couldn't remember it being this hot. Is it because the weather is hotter than in previous years, or is my body weak? Thinking of this, he suddenly became less groggy, and his heart seemed to feel cold. My body, yes, my body is not good anymore! He was scared, but there was nothing he could do. He couldn't drive away Huniu. He was going to become Er Qiangzi, the tall man he met that time, and Xiao Ma'er's grandfather. Xiangzi is finished!

At one o'clock in the afternoon, he made another deal. It was the hottest time of the day, the hottest day of the summer, but he decided to go for a run. He didn't care how hot it was under the sun: if he didn't feel any better after doing the job, it would prove that his body was not broken; if he couldn't pull off the deal, then there was nothing else to say, and he might as well have fallen dead on the burning ground!

After taking a few steps, he felt a bit of cool breeze, just like a bit of cool air coming in through the crack of the door in an extremely hot room. He couldn't believe himself; looking at the willow branches by the road, they did move slightly. Suddenly there were more people on the street, and people in the shops rushed out, holding cattail leaf fans to cover their heads, looking around: "There's a cool breeze! There's a cool breeze! The cool breeze is coming down!" Everyone almost jumped up and shouted. The willow tree beside the road suddenly turned into an angelic shape, conveying the message from heaven: "The willow branches are moving! God, please enjoy more cool breeze!"

It's still hot, but I feel much calmer. The cool breeze, even a little bit, gives people a lot of hope. After a few gusts of cool breeze passed, the sunlight was no longer so strong. It was brighter and darker, as if there was a piece of flying sand floating on it. The wind suddenly picked up, and the willow branches that had not moved for a long time seemed to have suddenly received something gratifying, and they swayed freely, and the branches seemed to have grown out. A gust of wind passed, the sky darkened, and all the dust flew into the air. Some dust fell, and ink-like dark clouds appeared on the northern horizon. Xiangzi stopped sweating. He glanced to the north, stopped the car, and put on the raincloth. He knew that the summer rain would come at a moment's notice and would not take any time.

As soon as the raincloth was put on, there was another gust of wind, and black clouds seemed to be rolling in, covering half of the sky. The hot air on the ground mixed with the cool wind, mixed with the smelly dry soil, which seemed to be cool and hot at the same time; half of the sky in the south was sunny and sunny, and half of the sky in the north was covered with dark clouds, as if some disaster was coming, and everything was panicked. The rickshaw driver was in a hurry to put on the raincloth, the shopkeepers were busy folding the covers, the hawkers were hurriedly packing up their stalls, and the travelers were rushing forward. Another gust of wind. When the wind passed, the street banners, stalls, and pedestrians seemed to have been swept away by the wind, and they were all gone, leaving only the willow branches dancing wildly in the wind.

The clouds had not yet covered the sky, but it was already very dark on the ground. It was as if the extremely bright and hot sunny afternoon had suddenly turned into a dark night. The wind carried the rain stars, as if they were searching for something on the ground, bumping around here and there. There was a red flash in the distance to the north, as if a black cloud had been lifted away, revealing a large area of ​​blood. The wind has died down, but it is blowing sharply and makes people shiver. After a gust of wind like this passed by, everything seemed to be different for some reason. Even the willow trees were waiting for something in confusion. Another flash, right above the head, bright white raindrops fell immediately, kicking up a lot of dust very hard, with a slight hint of rain in the soil. Heavy raindrops hit Xiangzi's back, and he shivered twice. The raindrops stopped and dark clouds spread across the sky. Another gust of wind came, stronger than the previous one. The willow branches flew sideways, the dust moved in all directions, and the rain fell; wind, soil, and rain were all mixed together, and they were all gray and cold horizontally and vertically. Everything was wrapped in it, and it was not clear which was the tree, which was the ground, which was the cloud. Everything was chaotic, noisy, and confused in all directions. The wind passed, leaving only straight rain channels, falling wildly, and one couldn't see clearly, just one piece. After a while, countless arrows shot up from the ground, and thousands of waterfalls fell from the houses. Within a few minutes, the sky and the earth were inseparable. The river in the sky fell down, and the river on the ground flowed across it, turning into a gray and yellow, sometimes white and bright, water world.

Xiangzi's clothes were already soaked, and there was not a single dry spot on his body; through his straw hat, his hair was completely wet. The water on the ground reached over his feet, making it difficult to walk; the rain above hit his head and back, swept across his face, and wrapped around his crotch. He couldn't raise his head, open his eyes, breathe, or step. He seemed to be standing still in the water. He didn't know where the road was, and he didn't know what was around him. He could only feel the bone-chilling water being poured on every part of his body. He didn't know anything anymore. He only felt a little warm in his heart and heard the sound of rain in his ears. He wanted to put the car down, but he didn't know where to put it. He wanted to run, but the water wrapped around his legs. He was just half-dead, half-alive, lowering his head and dragging forward step by step. The rider seemed to have died in the car, silently letting the driver struggle for his life in the water.

The rain subsided a little, Xiangzi straightened his back slightly and exhaled: "Sir, please stay away before leaving!"

"Come on! What's wrong with you leaving me here?" The man in the car shouted, stamping his feet.

Xiangzi really wanted to put the car down and find a place to take shelter. However, looking at his body, water was already flowing down his body. He knew that he would tremble into a ball if he stood still. He gritted his teeth and ran through the water no matter how high or low it was. As soon as he ran not far away, it became dark for a while, then lightened up, and the rain once again fascinated his eyes.

When I got there, I didn't even give the bus driver a single copper. Xiangzi didn't say anything. He couldn't care less about his life.

The rain stayed for a while, then started falling again, much lighter than before. Xiangzi ran home angrily. Holding the fire for a while, he shivered like a leaf in the wind and rain. Huniu made him a bowl of ginger syrup, and he drank it all in one go holding the bowl like a fool. After drinking, he got out of bed and knew nothing more. He seemed to be asleep, with the sound of rain in his ears.

By about four o'clock, the black clouds began to show signs of fatigue, flickering weakly and not quite red. After a while, the clouds in the west split, and the black cloud peaks were edged with golden, and some white air rushed under the clouds; Shendu went to the south, pulling a few thunders that were not very loud. After staying for a while, the sun peeked out of the clouds in the west, turning the rain-stained leaves into golden green. A pair of seven-color rainbows hung in the east sky, with two ends stuck in the dark clouds, and a patch of blue sky on the back of the bridge. The rainbow dissipated soon, and there was no longer a black cloud in the sky. The washed blue sky and everything seemed to be a new, cool, and beautiful world just born out of the darkness. Even the puddles in the courtyard were visited by several dragonflies of various colors.

However, except for the children chasing the dragonflies with their bare feet, the people in the courtyard did not care to appreciate the sunny day after the rain. A piece of the back eaves of Xiao Fuzi's house collapsed, and the three sisters were busy lifting up the Kang mat to block the hole. The courtyard wall collapsed in several places, and everyone had no time to take care of it. They just cleaned up their houses: some steps were too short, and water had poured into the house. Everyone was scrambling to get water out with dustpans and broken bowls. Some knocked down the gables and tried to fill them up. Some roofs leaked like a watering can, soaking everything. They were busy carrying it out and putting it next to the stove to bake or put it on the window sill to dry in the sun. When it was raining, everyone hid in the house that could collapse at any time and bury them alive, leaving their lives to God; after the rain, they calculated and packed up the losses; although after the heavy rain, a pound of grain might lose half a copper, but their losses could not be compensated by this. They spend money on the house, but no one will ever come to repair the house; unless it collapses to the point where no one can live in it anymore, one or two plasterers will come and use some plain mud and broken bricks to loosely block it up - preparing it to collapse again. When the rent couldn't be paid, the whole family was kicked out and their belongings were confiscated. The house is broken, and people can be killed by the house, but no one cares about it. With the little money they had, they could only rent a house like this; it was shabby and dangerous, and they deserved it!

The biggest loss is disease caused by rain. They, including their children and adults, are looking for business on the streets all day long, and summer rainstorms can pour on their heads at any time. They all worked hard to make money, and were always covered in hot sweat. However, the heavy rain in the north was so fast and cold, sometimes with hailstones as big as walnuts. The cold raindrops hit the open hairy eyes, which at least made them lie on the kang and have a fever for a day or two. The child is sick and has no money to buy medicine; a rain will raise the corn and sorghum in the fields, but it can also kill many poor children in the city. It is even more serious when the adults are sick; after the rain, poets sing about lotus beads and double rainbows; in poor families, when the adults are sick, the whole family goes hungry. A rain may bring in a few more prostitutes or petty thieves, and more people will go to prison; if the adults are sick, it is better for the children to become thieves or prostitutes than to go hungry! Rain falls on the rich as well as on the poor; on the righteous as well as on the unjust. In fact, the rain is not fair because it falls in a world without justice.

Xiangzi is sick. He was not the only patient in the hospital.

[1]

King Kong is the pupa of the locust insect.

[2]

"Sahuan" originally refers to animals running around happily, and is also used to describe children's actions.

nineteen

Xiangzi slept drowsily for two days and nights, while Huniu panicked. When she went to the Empress Temple, she asked for a magical prescription: in addition to a little incense ash, there were two or three herbs. I drank it for him, and he did open his eyes and take a look, but fell asleep again after a while, mumbling and not knowing what he said. Only then did Huniu think of asking a doctor. After two injections and a dose of medicine, he woke up and asked as soon as he opened his eyes: "Will it still rain?"

After the second dose of medicine was cooked, he refused to take it. He felt sorry for the money, but also hated himself for being so unlucky that he would be made sick by a rain. He refused to drink the bowl of bitter juice. To prove that he didn't need to take medicine, he wanted to put on his clothes and go to the ground right away. But as soon as he sat up, a big stone appeared on his head, his neck went limp, golden flowers appeared in front of his eyes, and he fell down again. There was no need to say anything else. He took the bowl and swallowed the medicine.

He lay there for ten days. The more he lay there, the more anxious he became. Sometimes he would crawl on the pillow and cry silently with tears. He knew that he couldn't make money, so Huniu would have to pay for all the expenses; after all her money had been advanced, Doza would rely on one of his cars; with Huniu's love for flowers and food, he couldn't afford it, and besides, she was pregnant! The less you can get up, the more you will think about random things, the more you think about it, the more worried you will feel, and the harder it will be to recover from your illness. As soon as he was worried about his life, he asked Huniu: "Where is the car?"

"Don't worry, I'll rent it to Ding Si to drive!"

"Ah!" He was worried about his car, fearing that it would be damaged by Ding Si or anyone. But since I can’t go to the land, of course I have to rent it out, how can I still be idle? He calculated in his mind: If he pulls it by himself, he should pull it on his back every day[1]

There is always an income of fifty or six cents. The rent, coal, rice, firewood, lamp oil, tea and water, not to mention additional clothes, will be enough for two people. They still have to be punished and searched, so they can't be as indifferent as Huniu. Now, I only earn more than 10 cents a day to rent a car, and I have to pay 40 to 50 cents in compensation, not counting medicine. What should we do if we become ill and old? Yes, don’t blame Er Qiangzi for drinking, don’t blame those bitter friends for misbehaving, the road to pulling a cart is a dead end! No matter how hard you work, if you want to be strong, don't get married, don't get sick, and don't make any mistakes. snort! He thought about his first car and the little money he had saved, but who did he offend? Not because of illness, nor because of starting a family, but he was so ruthlessly and unreasonably thrown away! Neither good nor bad will work. There is only death on this road, and it may come when, and you don't know at all. Thinking of this, I changed from sadness to decadence. Who cares, I just lie down if I can't get up, that's what it is anyway! He thought about nothing and lay quietly. Soon he couldn't bear it anymore. He wanted to get up right away, but he still had to run hard; the road is dead, but the human heart is alive. He always hopes before he is put into the coffin. However, he couldn't stand up. I had no choice but to say a few words to Huniu out of boredom and begging for mercy:

"I said that car was unlucky. It was so unlucky!"

"Take care of your illness! I always talk about cars, car fans!"

He said nothing more. By the way, I am a car fan! Ever since he pulled the car, he believed that the car was everything, and he was afraid... As soon as his illness became less severe, he got off the ground. Looking in the mirror, he didn't recognize the person in the mirror: his face was unshaven, his temples and cheeks were sunken, his eyes were two deep holes, and there were many wrinkles on the scar! The room was very hot and stuffy, and he did not dare to go out into the courtyard. Firstly, his legs were so weak that they seemed to have no bones, and secondly, he was afraid that others would see him. Not only in this courtyard, but also at the traffic entrances in the East and West cities, who doesn’t know that Xiangzi is the one with the highest head?[2]

Great boy. Xiangzi can't be such a sick man! He refused to go out. In the house, I felt depressed again. He wished he could eat it and become stronger so that he could go out and pull the cart. However, disease is destructive, and it comes and goes entirely by itself.

After resting for a month, he got into the car regardless of whether his illness was completely cured or not. He wore his hat very low so that no one would recognize him, so that he could run more slowly. "Xiangzi" and "kuai" are inseparable. He can't do it slowly and make others look down on him.

My body was not in good shape, and I was greedy to have more bowel movements to make up for the loss due to illness. After a few days of bowel movements, my illness came back. This time dysentery was added. He was so anxious that he slapped his mouth, but it was useless. His belly seemed to be touching his waist and he was still having diarrhea. The dysentery finally stopped. It was difficult for his legs to even squat down and get up again. Needless to say, he wanted to run for a while.

He took another month off! He knew that the money in Huniu's hands was probably running out! On August 15th, he decided to get out of the car. If he got sick again this time, he swore that he would jump into the river!

During his first illness, Xiao Fuzi often came to visit. Xiangzi's mouth has never been able to fuck Huniu, and he feels so depressed in his heart, so he sometimes talks to Xiao Fuzi. This one offended Huniu. Xiangzi was not at home, but Xiao Fuzi was a good friend; Xiangzi was at home, and Xiao Fuzi was. According to Huniu's idea, "Come and hang the stick! How shameless!" She then forced Xiao Fuzi to pay back the money he owed her, "From now on, you are not allowed to come in again!"

Xiao Fuzi lost the place to entertain guests, and her house was so shabby - the Kang mat blocked the back eaves wall. She had no choice but to sign up with a "transshipment company". However, the "transshipment company" does not need goods like her. They introduced her as a "girl student" and a "lady," with a high social network and a lot of money. They didn't want an ordinary person like her. There was nothing she could do. If you want to go to a brothel, since you have no capital and can't do your own business, of course you have to pledge it to the class. However, if you do this, you will completely lose your freedom. Who will take care of the two younger brothers? Death is the simplest and easiest thing; living is already in hell. She is not afraid of death, but she also doesn't want to die, because she wants to do something braver and greater than death. She wants to see her two brothers make money, and she will feel relieved even if they die. Sooner or later, he will die, but one of them died and two were saved! After much deliberation, she had only one option: sell at a low price. Of course, those who are willing to enter her small house won't pay a big price. Well, it doesn't matter who comes, just pay. In this way, she saves on clothes and makeup; those who come to her don't dare to expect her to be well-dressed, they only take pleasure in the money; she is very young and is already a bargain.

Huniu's health was no longer very convenient, and she was afraid that something would go wrong even when she went to the street to buy things. Xiangzi left for the whole day, and Xiaofuzi refused to come. She was as lonely as a dog tied up in the house. The lonelier she gets, the more she hates her. She thinks that Xiao Fuzi's sale is intentional to make her angry. She couldn't eat this little thing: sitting in the outer room, with the door open, she waited. When someone came to Xiao Fuzi's house, she would gossip at the top of her voice, embarrassing them and making Xiao Fuzi feel hungry. Xiao Fuzi had fewer guests, and she was happy. Xiao Fuzi knew that if this continued, everyone in the hospital would gradually respond to Huniu and kick him out. She was just afraid and didn't dare to get angry. People in her situation knew how to put facts ahead of anger and tears. She brought her little brother over and knelt down to Huniu. She didn't say anything, but her expression showed: If this kneeling down doesn't work, she herself is not afraid of death, and no one else can live! The greatest sacrifice is patience, and the greatest patience is preparation for resistance.

Huniu had no idea. No matter how she thought, it didn't taste good, but with such a big belly, she didn't dare to fight. Wu couldn't take it out, so she had to give herself a step: she was just teasing Xiao Fuzi, who wants to make the fake come true, Xiao Fuzi is too stubborn. With this explanation, they became good friends again, and she continued to maintain everything for Xiao Fuzi.

Since he got out of the car during the Mid-Autumn Festival, Xiangzi has been more cautious in everything. Two illnesses taught him that he is not invincible. His ambition to make more money was not completely forgotten, but repeated blows made him realize how weak his personal strength is. A hero must grit his teeth when the time comes, but even if he bites his teeth, he will vomit blood! Although the dysentery is gone, his stomach still hurts from time to time. Sometimes his legs and feet just spread out, and he wanted to try to speed up his steps, but there was a twist in his stomach, and he slowed down, or even suddenly stopped his legs, lowered his head, shrank his stomach, and endured it for a while. It was easy to pull a seat alone, but when he caught up with a group of people pulling a stroller, he stopped abruptly, leaving everyone confused and himself very embarrassed. I am only in my twenties and I am already making such a fool of myself. What should I do when I am thirty or forty years old? Thinking of this, he broke into sweat!

For his own health, he is willing to drive a chartered car again. After all, there is a time to catch your breath after working; when running, you have to be fast, but the rest time is also long, which is always easier than sitting around. He must know that Huniu will never let him go. Once they become a family, they will have no freedom, and Huniu is particularly powerful. He accepted his bad luck. In the past six months, from autumn to winter, he had been half coping and half struggling. He didn't dare to be careless or lazy. He felt depressed in his heart and kept running hard with his head down. He lowered his head, not daring to be as dumb as before and not caring about anything anymore. As for making money, he still earns more than the average coachman. Unless his stomach was twisting and hurting, he would never let go of a deal for nothing. He would do it when it was time to do it. He never got into bad habits. He didn't learn anything about intentionally exorbitant prices, about backing up in mid-ride, or about waiting for a good seat. In this way, he suffered a lot, but he was able to make money every day. He doesn't use tricks, so there is no danger.

However, if the money comes in too little, there will be no money left. The left hand comes in, the right hand goes out, one clean day at a time. He didn't even dare to think about saving money. He knows how to save money, but Hu Niu knows how to spend money. Huniu's "month" is in early February of the Chinese New Year. Since the beginning of winter, her arms have become visible, and she likes to show her importance deliberately. Looking at her belly, she couldn't even be bothered to get off the bed. The cooking and cooking were all entrusted to Xiao Fuzi. Naturally, those who had leftover soup and water had to be taught by Xiao Fuzi to give them to his brothers. This cost a lot. In addition to meals, she also had to eat snacks. The more visible her belly was, the more she felt the need to eat more good food; she couldn't keep her mouth shut. Not only did she buy bits and pieces from time to time, but she also asked Xiangzi to bring some back to her every day. She spends as much as Xiangzi earns, and her demands rise and fall with his money. Xiangzi couldn't say anything. When he was sick, he spent her money, so of course he had to pay her back. Xiangzi tightened her grip a little, she would soon get sick, "Pregnancy is a disease that lasts for more than nine months. What do you know?" What she said was also true. During the New Year, she had even more ideas. She couldn't move the nest by herself, so she sent Xiao Fuzi eight times to buy things. She hated herself for not being able to go out, but she loved herself too much and refused to go out. She felt depressed and panicked if she didn't go out, so she had to buy more things to look more comfortable. She kept saying that she was not buying it for herself but felt sorry for Xiangzi: "You have been working hard for a year and you still haven't eaten a bite? You haven't been very strong since you got sick. If you don't eat at the end of the year, will you be as hungry as a bed bug?" Xiangzi couldn't argue, and she couldn't argue; when the food was ready, she would eat two or three big bowls. After eating and not exercising, she was so full that she held her belly and must have had fetal gas!

After the New Year, she would not allow Xiangzi to go out at night anyway. She might not know when she would give birth, and she was afraid. At this time, she remembered her real age. Although she still refused to say it clearly, she would never tell him again, "I'm only 'a little' older than you." She was so noisy that Xiangzi was confused. The continuation of life is just having children and raising children. Xiangzi couldn't help but like it a little bit. Even if he didn't need a child at all, the simplest and most mysterious word "Dad" that would come to him in the future made even a hard-hearted person close his eyes and think about it. No matter how he thought about it, this word would always move his heart. Xiangzi, who was clumsy, couldn't think of any advantages or things to be proud of. When he thought of this wonderful word, he suddenly felt his dignity, as if it didn't matter if he had nothing. As long as he had children, his life would not be empty. At the same time, he wanted to do his best to provide and serve Huniu. She was no longer "a" person now; even though she was annoying, she had 100% of the credit for this matter. However, no matter how much credit she has, her noisy energy is really unbearable. She suddenly gets an idea and makes a lot of noise, but Xiangzi has to go out to make money and needs rest. Even if the money can be spent randomly, he has to sleep peacefully for a night so that he can go to work again tomorrow. She didn't allow him to go out at night, and she didn't allow him to sleep well. He had no idea at all, and he felt dizzy all the time, not knowing what to do. Sometimes he is happy, sometimes he is anxious, sometimes he is depressed, sometimes he feels happy but feels ashamed, sometimes he feels anxious but feels like masturbating, sometimes he feels bored but feels happy at the same time. Emotions circle in his heart, making even the simplest person confused. Once, he actually pulled his seat across the place and forgot where he was hired!

Around the Lantern Festival, Huniu decided to ask Xiangzi to invite a midwife, but she couldn't support it anymore. The midwife came and told her that it was not yet time and told her the signs of labor. She tolerated it for two days and then started to make trouble again. I invited the midwife again, but it still wasn't time. She cried and shouted that she was going to seek death and could no longer endure this torture. Xiangzi had no choice but to show his dedication, so he had to comply with her request and not pull the cart for the time being.

The fuss continued until the end of the month, and even Xiangzi could tell that the time had come, and she was no longer human. The midwife came again and gave Xiangzi a hint that it might be difficult to give birth. At Huniu's age, this was her first child, she lacked exercise on weekdays, and the fetus was very large because she was greedy for greasy food during pregnancy. Together, these factors made it impossible to expect a smooth delivery. Moreover, it has never been checked by a doctor, and the position of the fetus has not been corrected. The midwife does not have this surgery, but she will say: I am afraid of a reverse birth!

In this courtyard, everyone is used to talking about the birth of a child and the death of the mother. However, Huniu is more at risk than others. Other women are still active until the day of delivery, and they don't eat enough, so the fetus will not be very big, so it can happen easily. Their danger lies in postpartum disorders, but Huniu is exactly the opposite. Her superiority is her curse.

Xiangzi, Xiaofuzi, and the midwife stayed with her for three days and three nights. She called out to all the gods and Buddhas and made many vows, but to no avail. In the end, her voice was hoarse and she could only whisper, "Mom! Mom!" The midwife had no choice, and no one else could do anything. It was her own idea, and she asked Xiangzi to go to Desheng Gate to invite Grandma Chen, who was standing in front of a great toad fairy. Grandma Chen had to pay five yuan to come, so Hu Niu took out the last seven or eight yuan and said: "Good Xiangzi, go quickly! It doesn't matter how much money you spend! When I get better, I will live with you obediently! Go quickly!"

Grandma Chen and her "Tong'er" - a big yellow-faced man in his forties - arrived just before it was time to hold the lantern. She is about fifty years old, wearing a blue silk jacket, red pomegranate flowers on her hair, and all gold-plated jewelry. With eyes wide open, she first purified her hands after entering the door, and then lit up the incense. She kowtowed first, then sat behind the incense table, staring blankly at Kanae. Suddenly his body shook, and he shivered greatly. He lowered his head, closed his eyes, and did not move for a long time. You could hear a pin drop in the room, and Hu Niu gritted her teeth and did not dare to make a sound. Slowly, Mrs. Chen raised her head, nodded and looked at everyone; "Tong'er" pulled Xiangzi and taught him to kowtow quickly. Xiangzi didn't know whether he believed in God or not. He just felt that kowtowing would never go wrong. In a daze, he kowtowed several times. Standing up, he looked at the pair of piercing "divine" eyes, the bright red incense sprouts that were burned through, and smelled the smell of cigarettes. He vaguely hoped that there would be some benefits in this formation. Silently, his palms were sweating coldly.

The Great Toad Fairy spoke in an old-fashioned voice and stuttered a bit: "No, no, it doesn't matter! Draw a talisman to urge, urge, birth!"

"Tong'er" hurriedly handed over the yellow tissue paper. The immortal scratched a few of the fragrant seedlings, and then drew on the paper with spit.

After drawing the talisman, she stammered a few more words: It probably meant that Hu Niu owed this child a debt in her previous life, so she had to suffer some torture. Xiangzi was so dizzy that he didn't understand much, but he was a little scared.

Grandma Chen let out a big yawn, closed her eyes for a while, and then opened her eyes as if she was waking up from a big dream. "Tong'er" quickly reported the immortal's words. She seemed to like it very much: "The immortal is happy today and loves to talk!" Then she instructed Xiangzi how to teach Huniu to drink the magic talisman, and gave her a pill to take with the magic talisman.

Grandma Chen was eagerly waiting to see the effect of the magic charm, so Xiangzi had to prepare some food for her. Xiangzi entrusted this to Xiao Fuzi. Xiao Fuzi bought hot sesame sauce pancakes and sauce pork elbows; Grandma Chen still thought she didn't have a glass of wine to eat.

After Huniu took the magic talisman, Mistress Chen and "Tong'er" had eaten, but Huniu was still rolling around and making trouble. The fuss continued for more than one hour, and her eyes slowly rolled up. Grandma Chen still had some ideas, so she calmly asked Xiangzi to kneel down and smell the fragrance. Xiangzi has little confidence left in Grandma Chen. But since I spent five dollars, I might as well try out all her methods; since I don’t want to give her a beating, I’ll just follow her ideas, just in case something works!

Kneeling straight in front of Gao Xiang, he didn't know what god he was praying to, but he wanted to be pious in his heart. Watching the beating of the incense, he pretended to see some figures on the flames and prayed in his heart. The incense burned less and less, and some underworld was revealed in the flames. He lowered his head and put his hands on the ground. He felt a little sleepy. He had not slept well for two or three days. His neck suddenly softened, and he was startled. When he looked again, there was not much incense left. He didn't care when it was time to stand up, so he stood up slowly while leaning on the ground. His legs were already a little numb.

Grandma Chen and "Tong'er" had already sneaked away.

Xiangzi didn't bother to hate her, but hurried over to see Huniu. He knew that things were getting extremely difficult to handle. Huniu could only swallow her breath and could no longer make a sound. The midwife told him to try his best to get to the hospital, as she had exhausted her options.

Xiangzi's heart seemed to burst suddenly, and he cried with his mouth wide open. Xiao Fuzi also shed tears, but in the position of helping, she still knew better. "Brother Xiang! Don't cry yet! Shall I go to the hospital and ask?"

Regardless of whether Xiangzi heard it or not, she ran out wiping her tears.

She went at one o'clock. When she ran back, she was so out of breath that she couldn't speak. Holding her hand on the table, she coughed for a long time before she finally said: The doctor costs ten yuan for a visit, and he just takes a look and does not deliver the baby. Delivery is twenty yuan. If it is difficult to give birth, it will cost dozens of yuan to go to the hospital. "Brother Xiang! What do you think we should do?!" Xiangzi had no choice but to wait and die!

Stupidity and cruelty are some of the phenomena here; so stupidity, so cruelty, but for another reason.

Huniu died at twelve o'clock in the night with her dead child.

[1]

Back pull, that is, average.

[2]

The one with the top head is the first class.

twenty

Xiangzi’s car is sold!

The money was like flowing water, and his hand could no longer hold it back; the dead had to be carried out, and even opening a disaster list cost money.

Xiangzi seemed stupid. Seeing everyone in a hurry, he just took out the money. His eyes were terribly red, and there was a ball of yellow-white blur in the corners of his eyes; his ears were deafened, and he followed everyone around in a daze, not knowing what he was doing.

Following Huniu's coffin as he walked out of the city, he gained some clarity, but he still couldn't think about anything in his heart. No one attended the funeral except Xiangzi and Xiao Fuzi's two younger brothers. Each of them held a dozen thin pieces of paper money and scattered them along the road to the roadblock.

Silently, Xiangzi watched the bearer bury the coffin, but he didn't cry. It was like a raging fire was burning in his mind, drying up his tears and making him unable to cry even if he wanted to. Staring blankly, he almost didn't know what it was for. He didn't think of going home until the "boss" came to explain.

The room has been tidied up by Xiao Fuzi. When he came back, he fell down on the kang, too tired to move any more. His eyes were too dry to close, and he stared blankly at the ceiling with some traces of rain leaks. Unable to fall asleep, he sat up. After taking a look inside the room, he didn't dare to look again. I don't know what to do. He went out and bought a pack of "Yellow Lion" cigarettes. Sitting on the edge of the Kang, he lit a cigarette; he didn't like smoking. I stared blankly at the blue smoke on the end of the cigarette, and suddenly burst into tears, not only thinking of Huniu, but also everything. After coming to the city for a few years, this is the result of his hard work, that's it, that's it! He couldn't even cry! Car, car, car is your job. Buy it and lose it; buy it again and sell it; it rises and falls three times, like a ghost, you can never catch it, and you have to endure all the hard work and grievances in vain. Nothing, nothing, not even a wife! Although Huniu is powerful, how can we have a family without her? Looking at the things in the house, they all belong to her, but she herself is buried outside the city! The more he thought about it, the more he hated it. His tears were held back by his anger. He smoked the cigarette fiercely. The less he liked it, the more he wanted to smoke it. After finishing the cigarette, I held my head in my hands. My mouth and heart were burning. I wanted to scream wildly for a while and spurt out all the blood in my heart.

At some unknown time, Xiao Fuzi came in and stood in front of the vegetable table in the outer room, staring at him blankly.

He looked up suddenly and saw her, and tears fell down quickly. At this time, even when he saw a dog, he would shed tears; he was filled with grievances and wanted to vent them when he met a living thing; he wanted to talk to her and get some sympathy. However, he talked too much and couldn't open his mouth.

"Brother Xiang!" She moved forward, "I've packed everything."

He nodded, not bothering to thank her; politeness in sorrow was hypocrisy. "What are you going to do?"

"Huh?" He didn't seem to understand, but then he understood and shook his head - he didn't care to think of a solution.

She took two more steps forward, her face suddenly turned red, and she showed a few white teeth, but she couldn't say anything. Her life has forced her to forget her shame, but when it comes to serious matters, she is still a sincere woman: a woman's heart uses up most of her shame. "I think..." was all she said. There were many words in her mind; when her face turned red, they all suddenly ran away and she could no longer think of them.

There are not many truths in the world, and a woman's blush is worth a lot of words; even Xiangzi understood what she meant. In his eyes, she was the most beautiful woman, and her beauty was in her bones. Even though she had sores all over her body and her flesh was rotten, she was still beautiful in his heart. She is beautiful, she is young, she is strong, she is diligent and thrifty. If Xiangzi wants to marry again, she is an ideal person. He didn't want to remarry right away, and he couldn't think about anything else. But since she was willing and had to propose it immediately because of the pressure of life, he seemed to have no way to refuse. She was so kind and had helped him so much. He could only nod his head. He really wanted to go over and hug her, cry happily, cry out all his grievances, and then work together with her to keep going. In her, he saw the comfort that a man could get and deserve from a woman. He is not very talkative, but when he meets her, he is willing to talk casually; with her listening, his words will not be in vain; her nod or smile is the most satisfactory answer, making him feel that he has truly become "home".

At this moment, Xiao Fuzi's second brother came in: "Sister! Dad is here!"

She frowned. As soon as she opened the door, Er Qiangzi had already walked into the courtyard. "What did you do in Xiangzi's room?" Er Qiangzi's eyes widened, his feet were mixed with garlic, and he rushed over here and there: "You haven't sold enough, so you have to ask Xiangzi to play for nothing? You shameless thing!"

When Xiangzi heard his name, he rushed out and stood behind Xiao Fuzi. "I'm talking about Xiangzi," Er Qiangzi tried to straighten his chest crookedly, but he couldn't even stand upright: "I'm talking about Xiangzi, are you still a human being? It doesn't matter who you take advantage of, but just take advantage of her? What the hell!"

Xiangzi refused to bully a drunkard, but the depression in his heart made him unable to control his anger. He took a step forward. The four red eyes were facing the light, as if they were about to stir up in the air and send out sparks. Xiangzi grabbed Er Qiangzi's shoulders and threw him far away as if he were lifting a child.

Condemnation of conscience, through drinking, turned into rage: Er Qiangzi's drunkenness was somewhat fake. After this fall, he half woke up. He wanted to counterattack, but he knew that he was no match for Xiangzi. It's very uncomfortable to go out like this honestly. He sat on the ground and refused to stand up, and it was inconvenient to sit like this all the time. I was so confused that I could only say casually: "What does it have to do with you if I discipline my children? Beat me? Your grandma! You deserve it too!"

Xiangzi didn't want to fight back and just waited quietly for him to counterattack.

Xiao Fuzi was in tears and didn't know what to do. It was useless to persuade his father, and he felt uneasy watching Xiangzi beat him. She groped all over her body, scraped together a dozen copper coins, and gave them to her brother. My younger brother would never dare to get close to his father on weekdays, but seeing his father being beaten to the ground today, he felt a little bolder. "Here you go, let's go!"

Er Qiangzi took the money with eyes and stood up while chattering: "Leave it alone with you girls! If you offend the master, I'll kill you all with a knife!" When he was about to reach the street gate, he shouted, "Xiangzi! Leave it alone.[1]

, see you outside! "

After Er Qiangzi left, Xiangzi and Xiao Fuzi entered the house together.

"I can't help it!" She said to herself, which summed up all her difficulties and contained infinite hope - if Xiangzi was willing to marry her, she would have a way.

Xiangzi, after this scene, saw many dark shadows on her body. He still likes her, but he can't bear the responsibility of raising her two younger brothers and a drunk father! He didn't dare to think that once Huniu died, he would be free; Huniu also had the benefits of Huniu, at least she helped him a lot financially. He didn't dare to think that Xiao Fuzi would eat him, but it was absolutely true that her whole family would not be able to earn a living. To love or not to love, the poor have to decide based on money. "Love" is only born in rich families.

He started to pack his things.

"Are you going to move away?" Xiao Fuzi's lips turned completely white.

"Move away!" He was cruel. In a world without justice, poor people rely on cruelty to maintain their personal freedom, which is a very small freedom.

After looking at him, she lowered her head and walked out. She doesn't hate it, nor is she angry, just desperate.

Huniu's jewelry and better clothes were brought into the coffin. All that was left were some shabby clothes, a few wooden utensils, and some pots, pots, and spoons. Xiangzi picked out a few of the better ones and put them aside; the rest, including clothes and utensils, were sold. He called a "drum player" and sold it for more than ten yuan. He was in a hurry to move out and get rid of these things, so he didn't have the heart to find a few more people to slowly negotiate the price. The "drum player" packed away his things, leaving only his bedding and a few selected clothes in the room, which were placed on the kang without seats. The room was completely empty, and he felt a little happier, as if he had been freed from many entanglements, and he could fly far away from now on. However, after a while, he remembered those things again. The table has been moved away, but there are still some traces left on the table legs - piles of fine soil, forming several small squares against the base of the wall. Looking at these marks, he thought of things and people, as if they were all gone in a dream. No matter whether things are good or bad, no matter whether people are good or bad, without them, there will be no place for the heart. He sat on the edge of the kang and took out another "yellow lion".

Along with the cigarette, he brought out a broken piece of money. Intentionally or unintentionally, he took out all the money; for the past two days, he never bothered to do the calculation. He took out a pile of foreign money, dime notes, copper notes, copper coins, everything. The pile is not small. When I counted it, it was less than twenty yuan. After collecting more than ten yuan from selling things, his total property is only more than thirty yuan.

Putting the money on the bricks, he stared at them, not knowing whether it was better to cry or laugh. There was no one or anything in the house, only himself and a pile of old, moldy money. What is this for?

With a long sigh, he reluctantly put the money in his arms, then picked up the bedding and a few clothes and went to find Xiao Fuzi.

"You can keep these clothes and wear them! Keep the bedding for a while. I'll go find a good car dealer first and then pick it up." Not daring to look at Xiao Fuzi, he lowered his head and said all this in one breath.

She said nothing and only agreed twice.

Xiangzi found the depot and came back to get her bedding. He saw that her eyes were swollen from crying. He didn't know what to say, but he tried his best to come up with these two sentences: "Just wait! When I'm done, I'll come! I'll definitely come!"

She nodded and said nothing.

Xiangzi only rested for one day, and then went to pull the cart as usual. He wasn't as eager to do business as he was before, but he wasn't deliberately lazy either, he was just fooling around day by day without getting tired of it. After living like this for a month, he felt very peaceful in his heart. His face was a little plumper, but not as red as before; his face was yellow, not obviously strong, nor was he thin. The eyes are very bright, but there is no expression. They are always so bright and seem to be quite energetic, but they seem to have seen nothing. His look was like a tree after a storm, standing quietly in the sunshine, not daring to move at all. He didn't like talking before, and now he doesn't like talking even more. The day was already very warm, and the willow branches were already covered with young leaves. Sometimes he would put his car toward the sun, lowering his head and talking to himself with his mouth moving slightly. Sometimes he would lie on his back to receive the sunshine and take a nap. Except when he had to speak, he rarely talked to others.

I have become addicted to cigarettes. As soon as he sat in the car, his big hands went under the breast pads. He lit a cigarette, inhaled and exhaled very slowly, looked up at the smoke rings, stared blankly, and then nodded, as if he understood something.

When he pulled up the cart, he could run faster than the average cart driver, but he no longer ran as hard as he could. He was particularly careful when going around corners and going up and down slopes. Almost overly cautious. Someone wanted to race with him. No matter what kind of teasing provoked him, he lowered his head and said nothing, and still ran neither fast nor slow. He seemed to have seen through what pulling a cart was all about and no longer wanted any glory or praise from it.

In the factory, he made friends; although he didn't like to talk much, the silent geese also liked to fly in groups. If he doesn't make friends, his loneliness may not be bearable. As soon as he took out his cigarette box, he passed it around to everyone. Sometimes people see that there is only one stick left in his box and are embarrassed to reach out, so he simply says: "Buy more!" When he catches everyone gambling, he does not hide aside like before, but also comes to take a look, and sometimes places a bet, regardless of winning or losing, as if just to show everyone that he is very gregarious and understands that everyone should be happy after working hard for a few days. He would accompany them when they drank; he would not drink much, but he would spend his own money to buy some food and wine for everyone to eat. Things that he looked down upon in the past now seemed interesting to him—since his own path was blocked, he had no choice but to admit that others were doing the right thing. If there is a scandal among friends, he originally did not know how to deal with people, but now he will pay forty copper coins, or he will be a "public discussion son"[2]

. Not only did he pay the money, he also went to pay homage or celebrate in person, because he understood that these things were not just for wasting money, but some favors that must be fulfilled. Here people are really crying or laughing, not just making noise.

He didn't dare to touch the more than thirty yuan. After getting a piece of white cloth, he clumsily took a big needle and sewed the money into it, always keeping it close to the flesh. I don’t want to spend it, and I don’t want to buy another car. I just keep it with me as a preparation - who knows what disasters there may be in the future! Illness and unexpected disasters can come to you at any time, so you must be prepared. People are not made of iron, he understood.

It was approaching the beginning of autumn, and he took up the monthly subscription again. This time, it was easier than anything he had done in the house before; otherwise, he would not have accepted this task. He now knows how to choose a job, and has suitable monthly subscription skills; otherwise, there is nothing he can do to break up the meeting, and he is not as angry as before to go to the house. He knew that his body should be taken care of. As a coachman, if he tried to fight for his life - like he did before - he would only lose his life without getting any benefits. Experience makes people know how to be smoother, because there is only one life!

This time he worked near the Lama Temple. The owner's surname is Xia, he is in his fifties, he is knowledgeable about books and etiquette. He has a wife and twelve children at home. I recently married a concubine, and I didn't dare to let my family know about it, so I deliberately chose a secluded place to create a small family. In this small family near the Lama Temple, there are only Mr. Xia and his newly married concubine; in addition there is a maid and a coachman - Xiangzi. Xiangzi liked this very much. Let's talk about the courtyard first. There are only six rooms in the courtyard. Mr. Xia lives in three of them, one is in the kitchen, and the remaining two are used as servants. The yard is very small. There is a small, half-sized jujube tree leaning against the south wall. There are more than a dozen half-red dates hanging on the top of the tree. When Xiangzi swept the yard, he would sweep from one end to the other with two or three brooms, which was very easy. There were no flowers and plants to water, and he wanted to tidy up the jujube tree, but he knew how willful the jujube tree was, and it was unregulated, so it was inconvenient to do so.

There aren't many other jobs. Mr. Xia went to the Yamen for work in the morning and came back at five o'clock in the afternoon. Xiangzi only had to drop him off and pick him up. When he got home, Mr. Xia stopped going out, as if he was taking refuge. Mrs. Xia went out very often, but she always came back around four o'clock so that Xiangzi could pick up Mr. Xia. After picking him up, Xiangzi's work for the day would be finished. Besides, the places Mrs. Xia went to were just Dong'an Market and Zhongshan Park. After arriving, she still had a lot of time to rest. Xiangzi did all this as a joke.

Mr. Xia's hand was very tight, and he would not let go of a small coin easily. When he went in and out, he looked away, as if there was no one or anything on the street. The wife had a loose hand and went out to buy things every three days. If it was food and it didn't taste good, she would give it to the servant. If it was supplies, when it was time to buy new ones, she would give the old ones to the servant first so that she could negotiate with Mr. Xia for money. Mr. Xia's mission in life seems to be to dedicate all his energy and money to his concubine; in addition, he has no life or enjoyment. His money had to be borrowed from his concubine, and he would not spend it himself, let alone give it to others. It is said that his first wife lived in Baoding with her twelve children, and sometimes she could not get even a small amount of money from him for four or five months in a row.

Xiangzi hated this Mr. Xia: he was always hunched over, with his neck hunched, coming in and out like a thief, looking at his toes, never making a sound, not spending money, not smiling, even sitting in the car like a skinny monkey; but occasionally he would say one or two words, which would be extremely unpopular, as if everyone was a bastard, and he was the only one who was a gentleman who knew the rules and etiquette. Xiangzi doesn't like such people. But he regards "things" as "things". As long as he makes money every month, what else does he care about? ! Besides, my wife is very open-minded, and she often gets some food and daily necessities. Forget it, just think of it as pulling an unreasonable monkey. Regarding that wife, Xiangzi only regarded her as a woman who would give her some change and did not like her very much. She is much more beautiful than Xiao Fuzi, and she is moistened with powder and perfume, and wrapped in silk and satin, which is not what Xiao Fuzi can match. However, although she was beautiful and well-dressed, for some reason he thought of Huniu when he saw her; there was always something about her that looked like Huniu, not the clothes or her appearance, but some attitude or demeanor that Xiangzi couldn't find the right words to describe. He just felt that she and Huniu were, to use the word he could think of, the same thing. She is very young, twenty-two or three years old at most, but her demeanor is very sophisticated, never like a newly married woman, just like Hu Niu who has never had the shyness and gentleness of a young girl. She had a perm, wore high heels, and the clothes were cut just right to help her twist in an angular way. Even Xiangzi could see that although she was dressed so fashionably, she didn't have the magnanimity of ordinary ladies. But it's not like she was born a prostitute. Xiangzi couldn't figure out what was going on with her. He only thought she was a bit scary, as scary as Hu Niu. However, Huniu is not as young as she is, not as beautiful as she is; so Xiangzi is even more afraid of her, as if she carries with her all the power and viciousness of women he has ever experienced. He couldn't bear to look at her.

After spending some time here, he became more and more afraid of her. When Xiangzi took Mr. Xia out, he never saw how much money he spent; however, Mr. Xia also sometimes went shopping - to buy medicine at a large pharmacy. Xiangzi didn't know what kind of medicine he bought; however, whenever he bought medicine, the couple seemed to like it very much, and even Mr. After two or three days of being energetic, Mr. As soon as he saw Mr. Xia sitting in the car like a ghost, Xiangzi knew it was time to go to the pharmacy again. He didn't like Mr. Xia, but every time he went to the pharmacy, he couldn't help but feel sorry for the old skinny monkey. When Mr. Xia returned home with the medicine bag, Xiangzi thought of Huniu and couldn't explain how uncomfortable he felt. He didn't want to hold a grudge against the dead ghost, but looking at himself and Mr. Xia, he couldn't help but resent her. In any case, his body was not as strong as before, and Hu Niu should bear most of the responsibility.

He wanted to quit his job. However, it seemed outrageous to quit his job for such an irrelevant thing; while smoking the "Yellow Lion", he said to himself, "Why bother with other people's business?!"

[1]

Let this issue go, we won’t settle it for now, we’ll talk about it later.

[2]

Gongyier, a gift agreed upon by both parties. twenty-one

When chrysanthemums were out of market, Mrs. Xia bought four pots of flowers, but the maid Yang Ma threw one of the pots, and they started to quarrel. Yang's mother came from the countryside and thought that flowers and plants were not important things at all. However, since she hit other people's objects, no matter how unimportant they were, she was always careless, so she didn't dare to say anything. When Mrs. The country girl was anxious and didn't know how to talk about measurements. She shook her bottom and yelled out the most rude curses. Mrs. Xia jumped around and cursed for a while, telling Ma Yang to pack up and get out immediately.

Xiangzi never came to dissuade him. His words could not dissuade a fight, let alone a fight between two women. When he heard Yang Ma scolding Mrs. At the same time, he also saw that if Yang Ma blew it, he would have to follow suit; Mrs. Xia probably wouldn't keep a servant who knew her history. After Yang Ma left, he waited to be dismissed; calculating that it would be time for him to pack up his bed when the new maid arrived. But he didn't worry about this. His experience enabled him to calmly go to work and resign without any emotion.

However, after Yang Ma left, Mrs. Xia was very polite to Xiangzi. Without a maid, she had to go to the kitchen and cook by herself. She gave Xiangzi money and taught him to go out and buy groceries. After buying it, she asked him to peel what should be peeled and what should be washed. While he peeled and washed vegetables, she cut meat and cooked rice, finding something to say to him while doing the work. She was wearing a pink sanitary robe, a pair of green trousers underneath, and a pair of white satin embroidered slippers on her feet. Xiangzi lowered his head and worked clumsily, not daring to look at her, but he wanted to look at her. The smell of her perfume often flowed into his nose strongly, as if telling him that he must look at her, like a fragrant flower that attracts bees and butterflies.

Xiangzi knew the power of women and the benefits of women; a tiger girl is enough to make anyone afraid of women and reluctant to part with them. What's more, Mrs. Xia is far beyond what Huniu can match. Xiangzi couldn't help but glance at her. If she was as scary as Huniu, she was many times more admirable than Huniu.

Two years ago, Xiangzi would never have dared to look at her like this. Now, he doesn't care much about it: First, he has been seduced by women, and he can no longer control himself. Secondly, he has gradually fallen into the trap of a "carriage driver": what ordinary coachmen think is right, he now sees as right; since his own efforts and self-denial have failed, everyone's behavior must be justified, and he has to be a "carriage driver", whether he is willing or not; being different will not work. So, picking up an advantage is what ordinary poor people think is justifiable. Why didn't Xiangzi see an advantage? He glanced at this bitch, yes, she was just a bitch! If she was willing, Xiangzi couldn't refuse. He couldn't believe she could be so mean, but what if? If she didn't move, of course Xiangzi wouldn't move; if she showed some interest first, he would have no idea. Has she shown some interest? Otherwise, why didn't you let Yang Ma go and hire someone immediately, and just ask Xiangzi to help with the cooking? Why do you wear so much perfume in the kitchen? Xiangzi didn't dare to decide or hope for anything, but he still wanted to decide something or hope for something. He seemed to be having an unreal dream. He knew it was a dream, but he was willing to continue having it. There was a kind of heat in life that forced him to admit that he was worthless, and in this worthless thing was hidden the greatest joy—perhaps the greatest distress, who cares about it!

A little hope, a little courage; a little courage stirred up great heat; a fire burned in his heart. There is nothing mean here, neither he nor she is mean, their desires are equal!

A little fear awakened his reason; a little reason extinguished the fire in his heart; he almost wanted to escape immediately. There is only suffering here, and those who take this road will surely make a fool of themselves!

Suddenly hope, suddenly fear, he felt like malaria in his heart. This was even more sad than when he met Hu Niu; at that time, he didn't know anything, just like a little bee that came out for the first time and landed on a spider web; now, he knows how to be careful and how bold to be, he inexplicably wants to flow down, and is clearly afraid of falling!

He did not look down upon this concubine, this prostitute, this beauty. She was everything and nothing. If there was something he could do to help himself, he thought, Mr. With a husband like him, she could do nothing wrong. With a master like him, it doesn't matter what he - Xiangzi - does. He became bolder.

However, she didn't care whether he looked at her or not. After she could cook, she ate alone in the kitchen; after finishing the meal, she called Xiangzi: "You go ahead and eat. You have to get rid of the guy after eating. When you pick up the husband in the second half of the day, buy the food for the night so as not to go out again. Tomorrow is Sunday and the husband is at home. I will go out to find an old lady. Do you have any acquaintances who can recommend one? Old ladies are really hard to find! Okay, eat first, don't let it get cold!"

She said it very generously and naturally. That pink sanitary robe suddenly—in Xiangzi's eyes—seemed much plainer. On the contrary, he was a little disappointed, and felt ashamed from the disappointment. He realized that he was no longer a strong person, not only a weak person, but also a bad person! After eating two bowls of rice in a daze, he felt very bored. After washing my dick, I sat down in my room and sucked in countless "Yellow Lions" in one breath!

When he went to pick up Mr. Xia in the afternoon, he hated this old skinny monkey very much for some reason. He really wanted to let go of Huanhuan and throw this old guy half to death. Only then did he realize that when he was pulling a cart in front of a house, the master's third concubine and the eldest young master didn't know why the eldest master almost poisoned him to death after the master found out. He had previously thought that the eldest young master was too young and ignorant, but now he understood why the master deserved to die. However, he did not want to kill anyone. He only felt that Mr. Xia was annoying and hateful, and there was no way to punish him. He deliberately moved the handlebar up and down, shaking the old monkey a few times. The old monkey didn't say anything, but Xiangzi felt a little uncomfortable. He had never done such a thing, and he couldn't forgive himself even if he did it occasionally for a reason. Regret made him a little indifferent to everything, so why did he deliberately make himself uncomfortable? No matter how you say it, you are a coachman and you just do good things for others. What's the use of thinking about anything else?

He calmed down and forgot about this fruitless matter; occasionally thinking about it again, he felt a little ridiculous.

The next day, Mrs. Xia went out to find the maid. I'll go out for a while and bring back a trial worker. Xiangzi gave up, but no matter what he thought in his heart, it didn't make him happy.

After lunch on Monday, Mrs. Xia sent away the old woman who was doing the job trial because she thought she was too unclean. Then, she asked Xiangzi to buy a pound of chestnuts.

After returning from buying a catty of ripe chestnuts, Xiangzi called out outside the door.

"Bring it in," she said from inside the house.

Xiangzi went in. She was applying powder in front of the mirror. She was still wearing the pink sanitary robe, but she had changed into a pair of light green underwear. Seeing Xiangzi coming in from the mirror, she quickly turned around and smiled at him. Xiangzi suddenly saw Huniu in this smile, a young and beautiful Huniu. He was dead. His courage, hope, fear, and caution were all gone, leaving only a puff of hot breath, which could be big or small, supporting his whole body. This tone made him advance as he advanced and retreat as he retreated. He no longer had any ideas.

The next night, he packed up his belongings and returned to the factory.

The thing that he was most afraid of and shameful about was now revealed to everyone like a haha ​​- he couldn't pee!

Everyone scrambled to tell him what medicine to buy or which doctor to go to. No one felt this was shameful, they all sympathetically gave him advice, and recounted their own experiences with a blush on their faces. Several young people have bought this disease with money, several middle-aged people have suffered from this symptom in vain, several people who have received monthly subscriptions have had experiences of different weights but of the same nature, several people who have received monthly subscriptions have not personally experienced this, and there are other stories about the owners that are worth telling. Xiangzi's illness made them all open their hearts and talk to him about their confidants. He had forgotten his shame, but he was not proud of it either. He endured this illness calmly, which was no different than suffering from a little cold or a little heat. When it hurt, he regretted it a little; when he felt comfortable for a while, he remembered that sweetness again. No matter what, he is not in a hurry; life experience has taught him to underestimate life, so what's the use of being anxious.

Such a little medicine, such a folk remedy, cost him more than ten dollars; the root of the disease was not eliminated. So-so, he thought he was cured and stopped taking medicine. On cloudy days or during seasonal changes, his joints would hurt, so he would take some medicine temporarily or push through without taking it seriously. If life is miserable to the end, what does the body mean? If you think about it, even a fly would be having fun in a manure pit, let alone such a big living person.

After the illness passed, he almost became a different person. His stature is still so tall, but the righteousness is gone. His shoulders are deliberately relaxed forward, his mouth is drooped, and there is a cigarette between his lips. Sometimes I put half a cigarette between my ears, not because of the convenience of the place, but just for fun[1]

. He still doesn't like to talk much, but when he wants to open his mouth, he still manages to be playful. Even if he doesn't speak smoothly and neatly, he still has so much energy. When the mind is relaxed, the body and expression become careless.

However, compared with ordinary coachmen, he is not very bad. When he sat alone, he thought of his former self, and he still wanted to be strong and was unwilling to just slip away. Although there is no use in being strong, it is not wise to destroy yourself. At this time, he thought about buying a car again. Of my more than thirty yuan, more than ten yuan have been spent on medical treatment, which is a waste! But with a base of about twenty yuan, he has more hope than others who have a completely empty gun. Thinking of this, he really wanted to throw away the half-finished box of "Yellow Lion", stop smoking and drinking, and grit his teeth to save money. From saving money, I thought of buying a car, from buying a car, I thought of Xiao Fuzi. He felt a little sorry for her. Ever since he came out of the courtyard, he never went to see her. Not only did he not get better, but he also got a lot of internal diseases!

When he met his friends, he still smoked cigarettes and drank some wine when he had the chance, completely forgetting about Xiao Fuzi. With his friends, he doesn't take the initiative to do anything, but if others want to do something, he has to accompany them. The hard work and grievances of the day can be temporarily forgotten only by talking and having fun with them. The immediate comfort drives away noble aspirations. He is willing to be happy for a while and then sleep in darkness; who doesn't like this, since life is so boring, painful and hopeless! The sores of life can only be numbed for a while by the poison of tobacco, alcohol and women. Fight poison with poison, and the poison will one day return to the heart. Who doesn't know this, but who can have a better idea to replace this? !

The more you refuse to work hard, the more you feel sorry for yourself. In the past, he was not afraid of anything, but now he will find peace and ease: he will not get out of the car when it is windy or rainy; his body is a little sore, and he will rest for two or three days. Self-pity is selfish. He refuses to lend the little money he has to others, just to keep it for himself in rainy days. Cigarettes and alcohol can be used by others, but money cannot be lent out. I am more delicate and pitiful than everyone else. The more leisure you have, the lazier you become, and you feel bored when you have nothing to do, so you need some entertainment or good food from time to time. When he thought that he shouldn't waste time and money like this, he always had a ready-made sentence in his heart, a sentence that was forged by how much experience he had: "We should have been stronger back then, was there any benefit?" No one can refute this sentence, no one can explain it; then, who can stop Xiangzi from going down? !

Laziness can make people angry. Xiangzi now knows how to glare at people. He decided not to deal with the car seat, the patrolman, or anyone else. When he worked hard, he never got justice. Now, he knows how precious his sweat is. If he can spare a drop, he will lose a drop. Don't even think about anyone trying to take advantage of him. He casually put the car down, too lazy to move, regardless of whether that was the right place to put the car. The patrolman came to intervene, but he moved his mouth without moving his body, and would stop for as long as he could. When he arrived, he saw that the car had to be moved away, and his mouth couldn't be idle, he would curse. If the patrolman refused to be scolded, then it would be okay to give him a fight. Fortunately, Xiangzi knew that he was strong, so he beat the patrolman first, and then he would not suffer any loss in going to jail. During the fight, he felt his strength and ability again, and threw all his strength into the flesh of others. He saw the light, and the sun seemed to shine especially brightly. Saving his strength to prepare for a fight, he had never even thought about it before, but now it has become a reality, and it is something that can make him happy for a while; thinking about it, how funny it is!

Not to mention being a bare-handed patrolman, he was not afraid of the cars that were roaming the streets. The car was coming, picking up all the dust on the ground. Xiangzi did not hide, no matter how loud the car's horn was, no matter how anxious the passengers were. The car had no choice but to slow down. It slowed down, and Xiangzi also avoided it, eating less dust. If the car comes from behind, he will also use this trick. He figured it out clearly. The car didn't dare to hurt people anyway, so why did he get away so early that he could teach it to pick up all the dust? Patrol officers are specially designed to clear the way for cars, lest they run too fast and bring up not much dust. Xiangzi is not a patrol officer, so cars are not allowed to run rampant. In the eyes of the patrol officers, Xiangzi is the first-class "prick head", but they dare not offend the "prick head". The laziness of a miserable person is the natural result of trying hard but failing, and the mischievousness of a miserable man contains some axioms.

He was absolutely rude about the car seat. He was pulled wherever he was told, without taking more than one step. Talk about "up" at the entrance of the alley, but teach him to pull him "inside" the entrance of the alley. That won't happen! Zuo'er stared, Xiangzi's eyes widened even more. He knew how afraid the gentlemen in western-style clothes were of getting their clothes dirty, and he also knew how tyrannical and stingy the gentlemen in western-style clothes—most of them—were. Okay, he had already prepared it; after all, he just went over and grabbed the sleeves of their fifty or sixty yuan suits, and at least gave them a big black handprint! To give them such a handprint, they still have to pay money. They know how strong that big hand is, and it has squeezed their thin arms until it hurts.

He wasn't running too slowly, but he couldn't speed up in vain. As soon as the seat was pressed, his big feet touched the ground: "Hurry up, how much does it cost?" He was not polite, what he was selling was blood and sweat. He no longer wished to reward them with a few more rewards for their kindness. You get what you pay for, so you had to make it clear before you put in any effort.

He no longer cherishes the car so much. Since the heart of buying a car has become cold, I am indifferent to other people's cars. A cart is just a cart. If you pull it, you can earn grain and cart share, and that's all. If you don't pull it, you don't have to pay the cart share. So as long as you have enough money to eat for a day, there is no need to pull it out. The relationship between people and cars is nothing more than this. Of course, he was unwilling to damage someone else's car intentionally, but he couldn't protect it with extra care. Sometimes he was unintentionally bruised by another driver. He would not jump around and make a fuss with others, but would calmly drag him back to the factory. If he should pay fifty cents, he would pay two cents and finish the job. If the factory owner doesn't agree, that's easy to handle. The final solution will be a fight. If the factory owner is willing to fight, Xiangzi will accompany him!

Experience is the fertilizer of life. The kind of experience you have will determine the kind of person you become. You cannot grow peonies in the desert. Xiangzi was completely in the wrong rut. He was neither better nor worse than other drivers, he was just a driver like a driver. In this way, he felt more comfortable than before, and others liked him; the old crow had a black side, and he didn't want to be a white-haired boy alone.

Winter is coming again, and the yellow wind blowing from the desert can freeze many people to death in one night. Listening to the wind, Xiangzi buried his head in the quilt and did not dare to get up again. It wasn't until the wind stopped the howling of wolves that he got up helplessly and couldn't decide whether to go out or rest for the day. He was too lazy to reach for the cold handlebars, fearing the choking and nauseating wind. The strong wind was afraid of sunset, and it was not until after four o'clock that the wind completely stopped, and some reddish sunset showed through the dusky sky. He steeled himself and pulled the car out. He held his hands and pressed his head against the handlebar with his chest, shaking slowly and listlessly, with half a cigarette in his mouth. After a while, it got dark, and he wanted to close two deals quickly so that he could close the car early. He didn't bother to light the lamps until the patrolmen along the road urged him four or five times before lighting them.

In front of the Drum Tower, he grabbed a seat under the lamp and headed towards the east city. He didn't even take off his cotton robe, just trotting along in a daze. He knew it wasn't decent, but if it wasn't decent, it wasn't decent. Who would give a few more cents to a decent person? This is not pulling a cart, but a gangster; even though his head is sweaty, he still refuses to take off his long clothes, so he makes do with whatever he can. Entering a small alley, a dog probably saw that the man pulling a cart through his long clothes didn't like it, so he followed him and bit him. He stopped the car, held the cloth duster upside down, and chased the dog desperately. After driving the dog away, he waited for a while to see if it dared to come back. The dog didn't dare to come back, so Xiangzi said happily: "Damn it! I thought I was afraid of you!" "Who do you think you are as a cart puller? Let me ask you!" The person in the car asked angrily.

Xiangzi's heart skipped a beat. The voice sounded familiar. It was very dark in the alley. Although the car lights were bright, they were all below and he couldn't see clearly who was in the car. The people in the car were wearing large hoods and their mouths and noses were covered in large scarves, with only two eyes exposed. Xiangzi is guessing. The person in the car spoke again: "Aren't you Xiangzi?"

Xiangzi understood that the person in the car was Mr. Liu! He banged, his whole body felt hot, and he didn't know what to do.

"Where is my daughter?"

"Dead!" Xiangzi stood there blankly, not knowing whether it was himself or another person who said these two words.

"What? Dead?"

"Dead!"

"If I fall into your fucking hands, I'm still alive?!"

Xiangzi suddenly found himself: "Come down! Come down! You are too old, you can't help me beat you; come down!"

Fourth Master Liu walked down with trembling hands. "Where is it buried? I ask you!" "I don't care!" Xiangzi picked up the car and drove away.

He walked far away and looked back. The old man - like a big black shadow - was still standing there.

[1]

Be playful and playful.

twenty-two

Xiangzi forgot where he was going. He held his head high, held the handlebars tightly with both hands, and walked forward with bright eyes. He only cared about walking, regardless of the direction or destination. His heart was happy and his body was relaxed, as if all the bad luck he had suffered since marrying Hu Niu was poured out on Mr. Liu. Forgetting the cold, forgetting about making business, he just wanted to move forward, as if wherever he went he would be able to find his original self, the carefree, pure, strong, hard-working Xiangzi. Thinking of the dark shadow standing in the alley, that old man, it seemed that there was no need to say anything more. To defeat Liu Si was to defeat everything. Although I didn't punch the old guy or kick him, the old man lost his only relative, but Xiangzi was at ease; who said this wasn't retribution! The old man is not far from death if he is not angry to death! Old man Liu had everything, but Xiangzi had nothing; now, Xiangzi can still happily pull the cart, but old man can't even find his daughter's grave! Well, you old man has piles of foreign money and a huge temper, but you can't handle this pauper who makes two full meals a day!

The more he thought about it, the happier he became. He really wanted to sing a few words loudly and let everyone in the world hear this triumphant song - Xiangzi is alive again, Xiangzi has won! The air-conditioning at night bit his face. He didn't feel cold, but felt happy. The street lamps glowed coldly, and Xiangzi felt comfortable and warm in his heart. There was light everywhere, illuminating his future. I haven't smoked for a long time and I don't want to smoke anymore. I won't smoke or drink anymore. Xiangzi will beat the drum again and open a new business. He will continue to work hard to improve himself. He defeated Liu Si today and will always defeat Liu Si. Liu Si's curse is enough to make Xiangzi more successful and more hopeful. After exhaling a breath of bad breath, Xiangzi breathed fresh air forever. Look at his hands and feet, isn't Xiangzi still very young? Xiangzi will be young forever, teach Huniu to die, Liu Si will die, but Xiangzi lives, be happy, be strong, live - evil people will be punished and die, the soldier who robbed his car, Mrs. Yang who did not give the servant food, Huniu who deceived him and oppressed him, Liu Si who despised him, Detective Sun who defrauded him of money, Grandma Chen who fooled him, Mrs. Xia who seduced him... will all die, only the loyal Xiangzi lives, will live forever! "But, Xiangzi, you have to work hard from now on!" he told himself. "Why not do it well? I have ambition, strength, and am young!" He answered for himself: "I felt happy, who could stop Xiangzi from getting married and establishing a career? Who can be happy about the past few days, and who can not slip away? It's all over, and tomorrow you will see a new Xiangzi, who is even better than the previous one, much better!"

As he muttered in his mouth, he became more energetic on his feet, as if to bear witness to his words - I am not lying, I do have a body. Although I have been sick and suffered from the symptoms of being embarrassed, what does it matter? Once your mind changes, your body will immediately become stronger, no problem! He was sweating all over and felt thirsty and wanted to drink water. Only then did he realize that he had reached the back door. Not caring about going to the teahouse, he parked his car at the "parking area" west of the city gate, called the tea seller carrying a big earthenware pot and a yellow sand bowl, and drank two bowls of tea that was like pot water. It tasted very unpleasant, but he told himself that he would have to drink this all the time in the future, and he could no longer spend all his money on good tea and food. Having made this decision, I would just eat something—something that is not easy to swallow—as the beginning of a new life of hard work. He bought ten fried buns, which were full of cabbage and had "skin" on the outside.[1]

Youyaqi[2]

. No matter how unpalatable they are, swallow them. After eating, he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. Where to go?

In his heart, there were only two people he could seek refuge with and rely on. If he plans to work hard to improve himself, he has to find these two - Xiao Fuzi and Mr. Cao. Mr. Cao is a "sage" and will be able to forgive him, help him, and give him good ideas. Do things according to Mr. Cao's ideas, and then have Xiao Fuzi's help; if he fights outside and she fights inside, you will definitely succeed, you will definitely succeed, there is no doubt about it!

Who knows if Mr. Cao has come back? It doesn't matter, he will go to Beichang Street tomorrow to inquire. If he can't inquire there, he will go to Zuozhai and ask. As long as he can find Mr. Cao, everything will be easy. Okay, let's spend the night today, and then go find Mr. Cao tomorrow. After we find him, we'll go see Xiao Fuzi and tell her the good news: Xiangzi didn't do well, but decided to do well. Let's work together and move forward!

With such a plan, his eyes were as bright as an eagle's eyes, shining in all directions. When he saw a seat, he ran over to it and took off his cotton-padded jacket before he could even negotiate the price. When he started running, his legs were indeed not as good as before, but a wave of heat supported his whole body, and he tried his best! Xiangzi is Xiangzi after all, and Xiangzi runs as hard as he can, but he still has no share of others. When he saw one, he drove one and seemed to be going crazy. Sweat flowed out happily. After one run, he felt much lighter and his legs had the elasticity again. He wanted to run again, just like a famous horse that has not run enough but still kicks its hooves after standing still. He didn't collect the car until one o'clock in the night. When he returned to the factory, in addition to the car, he also lost more than 90 cents.

After a nap, he slept until dawn; turned over and opened his eyes again, the sun was already high. Resting after fatigue is the sweetest enjoyment. When I got up and stretched, my joints made a crisp sound. My stomach seemed completely empty, and I wanted to eat something. After eating something, he told the factory owner with a smile: "Take a day off, I have something to do." He made a plan in his mind: take a day off, get everything done, and start a new life tomorrow. He kept running to Beichang Street to try, just in case Mr. Cao had come back. As I walked, I prayed in my heart: Mr. Cao will definitely come back, don’t let me miss it! If the first thing is not going smoothly, everything will not be going smoothly! Xiangzi changed his mind, wouldn't God bless him?

When he arrived at the door of Cao's house, he rang the bell with trembling hands. Waiting for someone to open the door, his heart would beat out of his chest. Facing this familiar door, he didn't think about everything in the past. He just hoped that when the door opened, he would see a familiar face. He waited. He suspected that there might be no one in the courtyard, otherwise why would it be so quiet? It was almost terrifying. Suddenly there was a noise at the door, and he was startled. The door opened, and the sound of the door contained the most precious, endearing and lovely "Yo!" Gao Ma! "Xiangzi? It's so rare! Why have you lost weight?" Gao Ma has gained some weight. "Sir, are you at home?" Xiangzi didn't care to say anything else.

"You're at home. It's good for you. You only know your husband. It's as if we don't know each other! We don't even ask for good ones! You really will always be a 'guest (cowardly) carpenter - a saw (sentence)'! Come in! Are you doing well?" she asked as she walked in.

"Humph! Not good!" Xiangzi smiled.

"What's that, sir," Gao Ma called outside the study, "Xiangzi is here!"

Mr. Cao was moving the narcissus in the room in the sunshine: "Come in!" "Hey, you go in, we will talk later; I'll tell my wife; we will always talk about you! Foolish people have stupid popularity, don't look at it!" Gao Ma walked in nagging.

Xiangzi entered the study: "Sir, I'm here!" He wanted to say hello, but didn't say it.

"Ah, Xiangzi!" Mr. Cao stood in the study, wearing short clothes and a strange and kind smile on his face. "Sit down! Then -" he thought for a while: "We have been back a long time ago. I heard from Lao Cheng that you were at - yes, Renhe Factory. Gao Ma also went to look for you, but couldn't find you. Sit down! How are you? Are things okay?"

Xiangzi's tears were about to fall. He doesn't know how to talk to others, because his words are made of blood and are nestled deep in his heart. After being calm for a long time, he wanted to pour out the simple words that the blood had turned into. Everything was in his memory, he remembered it all at once, and he had to slowly arrange and organize them. He wanted to tell a living history. Although he didn't know its meaning, the series of grievances were real and clear.

Mr. Cao saw that he was thinking, so he sat down gently and waited for him to speak.

Xiangzi was stunned for a long time with his head down, then suddenly looked up at Mr. Cao, as if if he couldn't find anyone to listen to him, it would be better not to say anything.

"Say it!" Mr. Cao nodded.

Xiangzi began to talk about the past, starting from how he got from the countryside to the city. I didn't want to say these useless things, but if I didn't say them, I wouldn't be happy and things would obviously be incomplete. His memory was made of blood, sweat and pain, and he couldn't just talk about it casually, and he didn't want to cut it off when he talked about it. Every drop of sweat and every drop of blood is shed from life, so everything has value worth talking about.

When he comes to the city, he does hard work, and then changes his profession to pull a cart. How to save money to buy a car, how to lose it...all the way to his current situation. Even he himself found it strange why he could talk so long and so freely. Things, one after another, all want to jump out of my heart. Things seem to find their own words, one sentence after another, and each sentence is real, lovely, and sad. His heart cannot stop those things from going out, and his words cannot stop them. There was no hesitation, confusion, he seemed to take out his whole heart in one breath. The more he spoke, the happier he became, forgetting himself, because he was wrapped up in those words, and there was him in every word, the strong, aggrieved, hard-working, degraded him. After he finished speaking, he felt sweat on his head, and his heart felt empty, feeling empty and comfortable, as empty and comfortable as cold sweat after passing out.

"Now let me give you some advice?" Mr. Cao asked.

Xiangzi nodded; having finished speaking, he seemed unwilling to open his mouth again. "Do you still have to pull the car?"

Xiangzi nodded again. He doesn't do anything else.

"Since you still have to pull the cart," Mr. Cao said slowly, "there are two ways out. One is to pool money to buy a cart, and the other is to rent a cart for the time being, right? You have no savings, borrow money to buy a cart, earn interest, and pay back Isn't it the same? It's better to rent a car first. It's a big deal and you have to pay for food and accommodation. I sold my car to Mr. Zuo. If you want to come, you have to rent one. Okay?"

"That's good!" Xiangzi stood up. "Sir, don't you remember that?" "What happened?"

"That time, both the husband and wife ran to the left house!"

"Oh!" Mr. Cao laughed. "Who remembers that! That time, I was a little too panicked. I lived in Shanghai with my wife for a few months. Actually, it was unnecessary. Mr. Zuo had already agreed. That Ruan Ming is now an official and treats me well. Then, maybe you don't know this; forget it, I didn't remember it at all. Let's talk about it: What will happen to the little Fuzi you just mentioned?"

"I have no idea!"

"Let me think about it: if you marry her and rent a room outside, it still won't count; the rent, coal lamps and charcoal are all money, which is not enough. How can it be such a coincidence that she goes to work with you, you pull the cart and she works as a maid, it is not easy to find! This is not easy to handle!" Mr. Cao shook his head. "Don't worry too much. Is she reliable?" Xiangzi blushed and choked for a long time before speaking out: "She had no choice but to do that. I dare to put my head down, she is good! She..." His heart was in chaos: many different emotions were condensed into a ball, and suddenly they were about to burst, and they all ran away; he was speechless.

"If that's the case," Mr. Cao said hesitantly, "unless I can accommodate you here. You can occupy a room alone, and you two can also occupy a room; there will be no problem with the place to live. I don't know if she can wash and do things. If she can do something, let her help Gao Ma; my wife will have a baby soon, and Gao Ma is too busy by herself. As for her, she is eating for free, and I won't give her any wages. What do you think?"

"That's great!" Xiangzi smiled innocently.

"However, I can't completely decide this. I have to discuss it with my wife!"

"That's right! If Madam is worried, I'll bring her here and show Madam!" "That's fine," Mr. Cao also smiled. He didn't expect Xiangzi to be so thoughtful. "Let's do this. I'll mention it to my wife first, and you can bring her here another day. If my wife nods, we'll consider it a success!"

"Then sir, shall I go?" Xiangzi was eager to find Xiao Fuzi to report the good news that he had never even dared to hope for.

Xiangzi left Cao's house around eleven o'clock, which is the most lovely time of the day in winter. It was a particularly beautiful day, with no clouds in the blue sky. The sun shone down from the dry and cool air, making people feel some refreshing warmth. The crowing of cocks, the barking of dogs, and the shouts of vendors can be heard far away, and some loud and clear sounds can be heard across the street, like cranes falling from the sky. The sheds of the foreign cars were opened, and the copper work on the cars shone yellow. Camels walked slowly and steadily on the sidewalk, cars and trams were speeding in the middle of the street, people and horses were passing on the ground, and white pigeons were flying in the sky. The whole old city was full of movement and stillness, it was so chaotic and so quiet, there was a swarm of sounds and thousands of lives, all covered under the clear blue sky, and trees stood quietly everywhere.

Xiangzi's heart beat out of his chest and he flew into the air, circling with the doves! I had everything: things, wages, Xiao Fuzi, everything was solved satisfactorily in a few words, without even thinking about it! Look at the sky, how clear and dry it is, just like the people in the north who are so refreshing. When people encounter happy events, even the weather improves. It seems that he has never seen such a lovely Dongqing. To express his happiness in a more practical way, he bought a frozen persimmon. When he took one bite, his mouth was filled with ice! The cold that penetrated his teeth slowly spread from his mouth to his chest, making his whole body tremble. After finishing it in a few mouthfuls, my tongue felt a little numb and I felt comfortable. He strode away and went to find Xiao Fuzi. He had already seen that courtyard, that small house, and his beloved in his heart; all that was missing was a pair of wings to transport him there. As long as I see her, everything in the past can be wiped out and a new world will open up. The urgency at this moment was even greater than when I went to see Mr. Cao. The relationship between Mr. Cao and him was that of friends, master and servant, exchanging good things for good things. She is not only a friend, she will give him her life, and the two people in hell will wipe away their tears and move forward hand in hand with a smile. Mr. Cao's words can move him, and Xiao Fuzi can move him without speaking. He said the true words to Mr. Cao, and he was going to say something more intimate to Xiao Fuzi. He could say to her whatever he couldn't say to anyone. She, now, was his life, and without her it was nothing. He couldn't just work hard for his own food and drink, he had to rescue her from that hut and then live with him in a clean and warm house, as happy, decent and affectionate as a pair of birds! She can ignore Er Qiangzi or her two younger brothers. She must help Xiangzi. Er Qiangzi could earn his own living, and the two younger brothers could pull a cart together or do other things; Xiangzi couldn't do it without her. There is no part of his body, spirit, or work that does not need her. She also needs a man like him.

The more I think about him, the more anxious and happy I become; there are many women in the world, but none of them are as good and suitable as Xiao Fuzi! He has married and stolen; he has been exposed to the beautiful and the ugly, the old and the young; but they cannot be in his heart, they are just women, not partners. Yes, she was not the innocent girl in his mind, but precisely because of this, she was more pitiable and more able to help him. That idiot-like country girl may be very innocent, but she definitely doesn't have Xiao Fuzi's ability and mentality. Besides, what about himself? There are also many dark spots in my heart! Then, he and she are exactly the same as each other, neither one is tall nor low, just like a pair of jars that are both cracked and can hold water, just placed in the same place.

No matter how you think about it, this is the most appropriate thing to do. After thinking about this, he began to think about something practical: first pay one month's wages to Mr. Cao, buy her a cotton robe, straighten her shoes and feet, and then take her to see Mrs. Cao. Wearing a new, plain long cotton robe, with her head and feet clean, she would definitely be able to show off her appearance, age, and style, and she would be able to please Mrs. Cao. That’s right!

When he reached the place, he was covered in sweat. When I saw the broken gate, I felt like I was seeing my hometown that I had not been back to for many years: the broken door, the broken wall, and the few dry yellow grasses on the gatehouse were all very cute. He entered the gate and ran straight to Xiao Fuzi's house. Regardless of knocking or screaming, he opened the door. As soon as he opened the door, he instinctively stepped back. There was a middle-aged woman sitting on the kang. Since there was no fire in the room, she was surrounded by a very torn quilt. Xiangzi was stunned outside the door, and a voice came out from the room: "What's the matter! Where are you calling for funeral? Why did you just walk into the house without saying anything?! Who are you looking for?" Xiangzi didn't want to speak. The sweat on his body suddenly dropped. He held the broken door with his hand, but he did not dare to give up all hope: "I'm looking for Xiao Fuzi!" "I don't know! When you look for someone tomorrow, ask first before opening the door! What Xiao Fuzi and Da Fuzi are!"

Sitting at the gate, he was stunned for a long time, his heart was empty, and he forgot what he was doing. Slowly he remembered something, which was only as big as a little Fuzi. The little Fuzi walked back and forth in his heart, like a paper man on a revolving lantern, always walking back and forth without any effect. He seemed to have forgotten his relationship with her. Slowly, Xiao Fuzi's figure shrank a little, and his heart became more active. Only then did I know how sad it was.

When one is not sure whether something will be good or bad, people always think of the best first. Xiangzi guessed that maybe Xiao Fuzi moved, but there were no bigger changes. If you're not doing well, why don't you come and see her often? Being ashamed makes people act so that they can make up for their own mistakes. It's best to ask around first. He entered the compound again and asked an old neighbor about it. Didn't get any correct information. He didn't dare to be disappointed and didn't even bother to eat. He wanted to find Erqiangzi; he could also find the two younger brothers. These three men are always on the street, so it's not hard to find them.

He would ask people when he saw them, at the bus stop, in teahouses, and in courtyards. He would try his best to walk for a whole day and ask questions, but there was no news.

In the evening, he returned to the depot. He was extremely tired, but he still refused to forget the incident. After a day of disappointment, he dared not hope for anything more. Bitter people die easily, and bitter people are easily forgotten after they die. Could it be that Xiao Fuzi is gone? Taking a step back, it is possible that even if she did not die, Er Qiangzi would sell her to a very far away place; this would be worse than death!

Tobacco and alcohol became his friends again. How can you think without smoking? How can you stop thinking without getting drunk?

[1]

Skin, not burnt.

[2]

Yaqi, bad noodles are not pure, and it feels like biting sand when you eat it.

twenty-three

Xiangzi walked fearlessly on the street and met Xiao Maer's grandfather. The old man no longer pulls the cart, and his clothes are thinner and tattered than before. He is carrying a willow stick, a big earthen pot hanging in front of it, and a broken Yuanbao basket hanging in the back. In the basket are some sesame oil ghosts and a large brick. He also knew Xiangzi.

While talking, Xiangzi learned that Xiao Maer had been dead for more than half a year. The old man sold the old car and made a pot of tea and some sesame cakes and fruits to sell at the entrance of the car every day. The old man was still so kind and lovely, but he was bent a lot, his eyes were crying in the wind, and his eyelids were red as if he had just finished crying.

Xiangzi drank a bowl of tea from him and said a few words to him about the grievances in his heart. "You want to live well by yourself?" The old man judged Xiangzi's words: "Who doesn't think so? But who can live well? At the beginning, I had a good body and a good mind, and I have been living rough until now. I am now like this! Good body? Even an iron-forged person can't escape our dragnet. A good mind? What's the use! Good deeds are rewarded, and evil is punished. There are no such eight things. ! When I was young, I was really warm-hearted and took other people's things as my own. Is it useful? No! I have saved people's lives, including those who jumped into the river and hung themselves. Is there any retribution? I tell you, I may freeze to death. I finally understand that doing hard work alone is more difficult than climbing to the sky.

? Have you ever seen a grasshopper? It can jump very far by itself, but if you teach a child to catch it and tie it with a string, it won't even fly. They rushed into groups and fought in formations. Hum, they ate up the entire acre of crops in one go, and no one could control them! Do you think so? I have a good heart, and I can't even protect my little grandson. He was sick, I had no money to buy him good medicine, and I watched him die in my arms! Don't say anything, don't say anything! ——Here comes the tea! Who drinks a hot bowl? "

Xiangzi really understood: Liu Si, Mrs. Yang, Detective Sun--they couldn't get bad retributions just because of his curses; he himself couldn't get benefits just because he wanted to be strong. Oneself, relying solely on oneself, is just like the old man said, just like a grasshopper tied with a string by a child. So what if it has wings?

He didn't want to go to Cao's house at all. As soon as he gets to Cao's house, he has to be strong. What's the use of being strong? Just fool around carelessly like this: if you don’t have food to eat, just pull the car out; if you have enough to eat for one day, just take a day off and talk about tomorrow tomorrow. This is not only a way, but also the only way. Save money, buy a car, and prepare it for others to snatch it away, so why bother? Why not be happy and happy?

Besides, if he finds Xiao Fuzi, he should still work hard, not for himself, but for her? Since she can't be found, just like this old man's grandson died, who is he messing around with? He also told the old man about Xiao Fuzi, and he regarded the old man as a true friend.

"Who wants to drink a hot bowl?" The old man yelled first, and then thought for Xiangzi: "Based on my guess, there are two ways to get out: either teach the second strongman and sell him as a child, or be detained in the white house. Huh, most likely he was tricked by the white house. House! What should I say? Since Xiao Fuzi is married, it is not easy for anyone to buy it. So, it is probably 80% that she bought a white house. I have seen it. There are too many things to worry about: if the strong young man pulling the cart comes up to the street in a day or two, you can go find him. If he doesn’t pull the cart on a monthly basis, he must be crawling in the white house; if the girl and wife of our cart puller suddenly disappear, there is always 70% to 80% chance that she will be there. We go there. We sell sweat, and our women sell meat. I understand, I know! You go there and look for her. But, come on, who wants to drink a bowl of hot tea?

Once out of Guanxiang, I immediately felt empty. The trees stood thinly beside the road, and there wasn't even a bird on the branches. Gray trees, gray land, and gray houses all stand quietly under the gray-yellow sky; looking across this gray, you can see the desolate and cold Western Mountains. To the north of the railway, there was a forest and several low houses outside the forest. Xiangzi calculated that these were probably the white houses. Looking at the woods, there was no movement at all; looking further north, you could see some watery land outside Wansheng Garden, with only a few broken cattails and reeds left on the uneven ground. There was no one outside the small house, and there was no movement. It was so quiet near and far, he wondered if this was the famous white house. He boldly walked towards the house. There were straw curtains hanging on the door. The newly hung curtains were yellow and shiny. He had heard someone say that in the summer, the women here would sit outside their houses with their backs bare, greeting passers-by. Those who came to take care of them still had to sing kiln tunes all the way[2]

, showing that he is no amateur. Why is it so quiet now? Isn't there no business here in winter?

While he was suspicious, the straw curtain of the room next to him moved, revealing a woman's head. Xiangzi was startled. At a glance, the head looked very much like Huniu's. He said in his heart: "Look for Xiao Fuzi. If you find Huniu, you will really see a ghost!"

"Come in, silly darling!" The head said, and his voice was not like Hu Niu's; his voice was hoarse, much like the old man selling wild medicine he often heard on the overpass, hoarse but obviously eager.

There was nothing in the room, only the woman and a small kang. There were no seats on the kang, but there was a fire burning in the kang, and the stench was very unpleasant. There was an old quilt placed on the kang. The edges of the quilt were as shiny as the bricks on the kang. The woman was in her forties, her hair was disheveled, and she had not washed her face. She was wearing a pair of trousers and a small blue cotton-padded jacket with no buttons on top. Xiangzi lowered his head and walked in. As soon as he entered, he was hugged by her. The little cotton-padded jacket was not buttoned up, and a pair of extremely long and huge breasts were exposed on her chest.

Xiangzi sat on the edge of the kang, because he couldn't straighten his neck while standing. He was very fond of meeting her. He often heard people say that there was a "white-faced pocket" in the white house, and it must be her. The nickname "White Face Pocket" comes from her two big breasts. Xiangzi asked her straight to the point if she had seen a little lucky child, but she didn't know. Xiangzi described Xiao Fuzi's appearance, and she remembered: "Yes, there is such a person! She is not old, so she can show some white teeth. Yes, we call her Xiao Tenderrou."

"Which room is she in?" Xiangzi's eyes suddenly opened with murderous intent. "She? She's dead!" "White Face Pocket" pointed outwards, "She was hanged in the woods!"

"how?"

"After the little tender meat came here, she became very popular. But she couldn't stand it a little, and her body was quite thin. One day, when I was lighting the lamp, I still remember it really, because I was sitting at the door with two or three other girls. Alas, at this time, a wanderer came and ran into her room; she didn't like to sit with us at the door. When we first arrived, She was beaten for this when she got famous, and everyone let her stay alone in the house. Fortunately, she didn't go to see anyone else. After dinner, the guests left and ran to the woods. We didn't see anything, and no one came to the house to see her. I saw a man lying naked in the room, sleeping soundly. It turned out that he was drunk. She took off the guest's clothes, put on her own clothes, and escaped. She was so clever that she would not have been able to escape if it was dark. She disguised herself as a man and fooled everyone. Huh, as soon as she entered the tree, Lin, she was hanging there. When she was taken off, she was dead, but her tongue didn't spit out much, and her face wasn't ugly. She was still cute when she died! There was nothing going on in the woods at night, how kind it was for her not to come out to scare people..." Xiangzi walked out without waiting for her to finish. We walked to a cemetery with some pine trees planted in all directions, and there were more than a dozen grave heads among the trees. The sunlight was already very weak, and it was even dimmer in the pine forest. He sat on the ground with some hay and pine flowers. There was no sound, only the long and mournful screams of a few mountain magpies on the trees. This was definitely not Xiao Fuzi's grave, he knew, but his tears fell one after another. There is nothing left, even Xiao Fuzi has fallen into the ground! He wanted to be strong, and Xiao Fuzi wanted to be strong. He only had some useless tears left, and she was already a hanger! Once you get the chance to win a seat, you will be buried in a pile of random deaths. This is the end of a life of hard work!

Returning to the depot, he slept for two days. I never want to go to Cao's house. I don't even need to send a letter. Mr. Cao can't save Xiangzi's life. After sleeping for two days, he pulled the car out. His heart was completely blank. He no longer thought about anything or hoped for anything. He only came out to suffer for his stomach. When his stomach was full, he went to sleep. What else should he think about or hope for? Seeing a bone-thin dog waiting to eat some skins and whiskers next to the sweet potato pick, he realized that he was just like this dog, spending the whole day just to pick up some sweet potato skins and whiskers. It's all about making do with life, there's no need to think about anything else.

Man has lifted himself out of the beasts, but up to now he has driven his own kind into the beasts. Xiangzi was still in the cultural city, but he turned into a beast. Through no fault of his own at all. He stopped thinking, so even if he killed someone, he would not bear any responsibility. He no longer had hope, so he fell in a daze, into the bottomless pit. He eats, he drinks, he whores, he gambles, he is lazy, he is cunning, because he has no heart, his heart has been taken away. All that was left of him was the tall frame of flesh, waiting to fester and prepare to go to the post of random death.

Winter has passed, and the spring sunshine is nature's clothing for everyone. He sold all the cotton-padded clothes and rolls. He wants to eat well and drink well, and he does not need to save winter clothes, nor is he prepared to see winter again. He can be happy today, but die tomorrow! It doesn’t matter if it’s winter or not! Unfortunately, I'm still alive in the winter, so let's talk about it later. Originally, when he thought, he thought about a lifetime; now, he only cares about the present. Experience told him that tomorrow is just a continuation of today, and tomorrow will inherit today's grievances. He felt very happy after selling his cotton-padded clothes. What could he do with cash? Why wait for the winter when a gust of wind would choke people to death?

Slowly, he wanted to sell not only clothes, but also everything. Anything that was not needed for the time being was sold immediately. He likes to see his things turn into money and be spent by himself; if he spends it himself, it will not fall into the hands of others. This is the safest way. Sell ​​things and buy them when you need them; if you don't have the money to buy them, just don't use them. It doesn’t matter if you don’t wash your face or brush your teeth. It not only saves money, but also saves trouble. Who do you show your decency to? Wearing rags and eating pancakes and rolls with sauce and meat in their stomachs, this is true! There are good things in the belly, and even if it is dead, it will still have some oil and water, so it will not look like a starving mouse. Xiangzi, such a decent Xiangzi, turned into a thin and dirty low-class coachman. He doesn't wash his face, body, or clothes, and sometimes doesn't shave his hair for more than a month.

He doesn’t care much about his car, it’s either new or old, as long as it’s small. After the deal was brought in, with a little bit of sweetness, he threw it out halfway. If the person in the car didn't agree, he would stare and start a fight. It wouldn't be a big deal if he stayed in the police district for two days! Pulling the cart alone, he walked very slowly, feeling sorry for his own sweat. When he gets on the stroller, if he is happy, he is willing to run just to leave others behind. At this time, he is also very good at causing trouble. He can cut across other cars, make hard turns on purpose, twist the car behind him awkwardly, and give the car in front of him a cold blow. At first he thought that pulling a cart was dragging someone's life, and if he was not careful, he would be in danger of falling to death. Now, he deliberately wants to be bad; it doesn't matter if he falls to death, everyone deserves to die! He regained his taciturnity. Silently, he ate, he drank, and he broke.

Speech is how human beings exchange opinions and convey feelings. If he has no opinions and no hope, what is the use of talking? Except for bargaining, he keeps his mouth shut all day long; his mouth seems to be specially prepared for eating, drinking tea and smoking. Even when he was drunk, he would not make a sound. He would sit in a secluded place and cry. Almost every time he got drunk, he would go to the woods where Xiao Fuzi hung himself and cry; after crying, he would stay in the white house. When I woke up from drinking, my hands were cleansed by money and I was sick. He doesn't regret it; if he does regret it sometimes, he regrets why he was so strong, so cautious, and so honest in the first place. Everything that should be regretted is over, and there is nothing to regret now.

Now, if he can take advantage, that's what he will do. Smoking one more cigarette, spending a fake copper when buying things, drinking soy juice and eating a few more pickles, pulling a cart with less effort and earning one or two more coppers all made him feel satisfied. He took advantage and others suffered a loss. Yes, this is a kind of revenge! Slowly expanding this, he also learned to borrow money from his friends, but he still didn't want to pay it back; when pressed, he could act rogue. In the first year of junior high school, no one doubted him at all. They all knew that he was a decent and trustworthy person, so he borrowed money as soon as he opened his mouth. He used the remnants of this personality to borrow things everywhere, picking them up for free, and spending them as soon as he got them. When someone wants a debt, he will act very pitiful and beg for mercy; if that doesn't work, he will borrow another twenty cents, pay off the debt of fifteen cents, and drink the remaining five cents first. After going back and forth, he couldn't even borrow a copper, so he started to cheat money. He would visit all the houses he had been in before, whether it was the owner or the servant. When he met, he would make up a lie and defraud a few money. If he had no money, he would beg for some rags, and when he got the clothes, he would immediately turn into money, and the money would immediately turn into tobacco and alcohol. He lowered his head and thought about bad ideas. If he thought of a good idea, he could make more money than pulling a car for a day; he would save energy and make money, which he felt was very good value. He even went to see Cao Zhai's Gao Ma. He was waiting from a distance for Gao Ma to come out to buy things. When he saw her coming out, he rushed over in one step and called her "Sister-in-law Gao" in a very moving voice. "Oh! I'm scared to death! Who do I think you are? Xiangzi! Why are you like this?" Gao Ma's eyes widened, as if she saw a monster.

"Don't mention it!" Xiangzi lowered his head.

"Didn't you make an agreement with your husband? Why didn't you look back? I asked Lao Cheng about you, and he said he didn't see you. Where have you been? Both my husband and my wife are worried!"

"I was ill for a long time and almost died! Talk to your husband and help me, and then come back to work when I feel better!" Xiangzi said the words he had already compiled, simple and touching.

"Sir is not at home, would you please come in and meet my wife?"

"Don't worry! I'm like this! Tell me about it!"

Gao Ma took out two dollars for him: "My wife gave it to you, please take some medicine quickly!"

"Yes! Thank you, madam!" Xiangzi took the money and thought about where to develop it. As soon as Gao Ma turned around, he ran to the overpass and played for a whole day.

After slowly cleaning all the doors of the house, he tried it a second time, but this time it was no longer very effective. He saw that this road could not be long, he had to think of another idea, and he had to think of an idea that could make money easier than pulling a cart. Before, his only hope was to pull a cart; now, he hates pulling a cart. Naturally, he couldn't completely cut off the relationship with the car for the time being, but as long as there was a way to temporarily cope with three meals, he refused to touch the handlebars. His body is lazy and his ears are sharp. When there is news, he will run to the front. Whether it's a citizens' group or a petition group, he does it all if someone pays for it. Whether it was three cents or two cents, he was willing to spend a day flying flags and walking around with the crowd. He felt that this was better than pulling a cart anyway. He didn't make much money, but he didn't have to work hard. Holding a small flag, he lowered his head, held a cigarette in his mouth, and followed everyone with a half-smile without saying a word. When he has to shout a few times, he will open his mouth wide and be completely silent. He cherishes his voice. He didn't want to use force for anything, because he had tried his best before without any benefit. During this kind of flag-raising and shouting, if he encounters any danger, he will be the first to run away, and he will run very fast. He can destroy his life in his own hands and never sacrifice anything for anyone else. Those who work hard for the individual also know how to destroy the individual. These are the two ends of individualism.

[1]

Beng'er means ability and future.

[2]

Kiln tune, a ditty popular in brothels.

Remember to take a break when you are tired from reading~

Public account: Good Cat Ning Li

E-book search and download

Book list sharing

Book Friends Learning and Exchange

Website: Chenjin Bookstore https://www.chenjin5.com

E-book search and download

E-book packaging resource sharing

Learning resource sharing twenty-four

It's the time to burn incense to the top again, and the weather is getting hotter.

The paper fan sellers all seemed to suddenly appear from somewhere, carrying boxes with the bells on them ringing loudly and attracting attention. Beside the road, green apricots are being sold in piles, cherries are shining red, swarms of golden bees are settling on the pots of roses and dates, glass powder is placed in a large porcelain pot with a layer of opalescence, the picks of grilled cakes and jelly are arranged very neatly, and various colors of condiments are displayed. People also put on light and fancy single clothes. Suddenly, many colors are added to the street, like so many rainbows scattered in the world. The sweepers worked hard and kept pouring water on the road, but the light dust was still flying up, which was annoying. There are long willow branches and light and active swallows in the light dust, which makes people feel refreshed. It was an unbelievably good weather, and everyone was yawning lazily, tired and happy.

Yangko, Lion, Road Maker, Five Tiger Sticks, and other various groups all went up the mountain one after another. Beating gongs and drums, carrying boxes and cages, and flying apricot-yellow flags, one after another, gave the whole city some unusual excitement, gave people some vague but kind feelings, and left some sounds and dust in the air. Those who attended and watched the meeting felt some enthusiasm, piety, and excitement. The bustle of troubled times comes from superstition, and the only comfort for a fool is self-deception. These colors, these sounds, the clear clouds in the sky, and the dust on the street make people energetic and have things to do: those who go up the mountain, those who go to the temple, those who look at the flowers... Those who are not able to do it can still watch the excitement on the street and recite the Buddha's name twice.

The hot weather seems to have awakened the dream of spring in the old city. There are places to play everywhere and everyone thinks of something to do. The temperature encourages the flowers, plants, fruits and trees to grow together with the enjoyment of the world. The new green willows in the North and South Seas attract young people playing the harmonica. Men and women put the boats under the willow shades, or swing among the young lotuses, blowing love songs in their mouths, and kissing their eyebrows. The peonies and peonies in the park invite elegant people to wander slowly, waving precious paper fans; when they are tired of walking, they will drink a few cups of tea that can cause melancholy in front of the red wall, under the green pines, and secretly look at the ladies and famous flowers from the north and south coming and going. Even that place that has always been calm has been visited by gentle breezes and sunny days, bringing tourists as well as butterflies. The peonies in Chongxiao Temple, the green reeds in Taoranting, and the mulberry forests and rice in the Natural Museum all attract people's voices and shadows; even the Temple of Heaven, Confucius Temple, and Yonghe Temple are also slightly lively despite their seriousness. I like to travel far and wide with my students, to the Western Mountains, to hot springs, to the Summer Palace, to travel, to run around, to collect, and to scribble on rocks. People who are suffering from poverty also have places to go. Huguo Temple, Longfu Temple, Baita Temple, Tutu Temple, and Flower Market are all more lively than in the past: all kinds of flowers and plants are brightly displayed on the roadside, and one or two copper plates can bring "beauty" to your home. On the bean juice stall, the pickles are as bright as a big flower, with burnt red peppers on the tips. The chicken is cheap, and the fried egg horns are so brown and tender that it makes you salivate. The overpass is even more popular, with new tea tents built next to each other, white tablecloths, and charming singing girls, facing the old pines on the wall of the Temple of Heaven. The sound of gongs and drums was extended to seven or eight hours. The dry weather made the gongs and drums especially crisp, which disturbed people's hearts. It is easy for prostitutes to dress up. A single piece of floral fabric can be displayed beautifully and the curves of the body are clearly exposed. People who like peace and quiet have places to go. In front of Jishui Beach, outside Wanshou Temple, in the kilns in the eastern suburbs, and on the Baishi Bridge in the western suburbs, you can fish. The young reeds will tremble slightly when the small fish hit them. After fishing, pig head meat, boiled tofu, white dry wine and salt water beans in the wild teahouse can also make people drunk and full; then, carrying the fishing rod and small fish, along the willow bank, stepping into the sunset, calmly enter the ancient city gate.

It’s fun everywhere, lively everywhere, and lively everywhere. The intense heat in early summer is like a talisman, making this old city full of magic. It doesn't care about death, disaster, or hardship. When the time comes, it will exert its power and hypnotize millions of people's hearts, singing its hymns like a dream. It is dirty, it is beautiful, it is old, it is lively, it is messy, it is leisurely, it is lovely, it is the great Beiping in early summer.

It is during this season that people look forward to some news that is enough to relieve their boredom, news that is enough to read two or three times without getting bored, news that is enough to read the newspaper and see it in person. The days are so long and sunny!

Such news is coming! As soon as the tram came out of the factory, the newspaper seller was already running around shouting at the top of his voice: "News about the shooting of Ruan Minh, news about the parade at nine o'clock!" One copper plate, another copper plate, and another copper plate were all picked up by the little gangster. On the tram, in the shops, and in the hands of passers-by, one by one they all talk about Nguyen Minh: Nguyen Minh’s photos, Nguyen Minh’s history, Nguyen Minh’s interview notes, large and small characters, illustrations, the whole page is about Nguyen Minh. Nguyen Minh was on the tram. In the eyes of passers-by and in the mouths of those who talked to him, it seemed that there was no one else but Nguyen Minh in the old city. Nguyen Minh was paraded in the street today and was shot today! Valuable news, ideal news, not only talking about Ruan Ming, but you can also see him after a while. Women are rushing to dress up; old people go out early, fearing that they will be slow and fall behind; even children in school want to skip school for a long time and see something new. By eight-thirty, the streets were full of people, excited, hopeful, crowded, noisy, waiting to see this live news. The coachmen forgot to organize business, the rules in the shops were chaotic, and the vendors were too lazy to shout, and they were all looking forward to the prison car and Ruan Ming. In history, there were Huang Chao, Zhang Xianzhong, and the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, who knew how to kill and loved to watch people kill. Shooting seems too simple. They like to listen to Ling Chi, beheading, skinning, and burying alive. It sounds like they have eaten ice cream, and they tremble slightly with pleasure. But this time, in addition to being shot, there was also a parade around the streets. They almost wanted to thank the person who came up with such an idea, so that they would see a half-dead man tied to the car, which made their eyes bright; even if they were not executioners, it was almost the same. These people have no good or evil in their hearts, do not understand good and evil, and cannot distinguish right from wrong. They cling to some ethics and want to be called civilized people; but they love to see their own kind chopped up with thousands of knives, as cruel and happy as a child slaughtering a puppy. Once they gain power, any one of them will massacre the city and cut off women's breasts and feet and pile them into hills. This is their quick move. If they don't get this authority, they might as well watch more slaughtering of pigs, sheep, and people to enjoy themselves. If they can't even touch this, they will curse even a child to kill with a thousand cuts, kill with ten thousand cuts, to relieve the evil in their hearts.

The clear blue sky, a red sun high in the east, a few light east winds, and the willow branches on the roadside swayed slightly. There is a large shadow on the east sidewalk, crowded with people: young and old, men and women, ugly, handsome, fat and thin, some dressed up nicely, some wearing only small coats, all talking and laughing, looking forward, and looking south or north from time to time. When one person poked his head in, everyone followed, and their hearts beat faster together. In this way, the crowd moved forward more and more, and the crowd gradually squeezed to the side of the road, becoming a wall of flesh, with only uneven heads moving around. Patrol police came out in groups to maintain order. They blocked and shouted. Sometimes they would pick out a kid who looked like a lump of clay and punch him in the face, which made everyone laugh. Waiting, waiting patiently, my legs are already sore, but I still refuse to go back empty-handed; those in front refuse to leave, and the newcomers behind them push forward, and they start to argue. They don't move their hands and feet, and they only use their words to fight, scolding each other, and everyone shouts "Hello". The child got impatient and was slapped by the adults; the pickpockets got hold of them and they were yelled at when they lost something. There was a lot of noise, shouting, and noisy, but no one was willing to move. The more people there were, the more reluctant they were to move, expressing their unanimous liking to look at the half-dead prisoner.

Suddenly, everyone was quiet, and a group of armed policemen came from a distance. "Coming!" someone shouted. Immediately after the crowd became noisy, the whole group of people crowded forward like a machine, inch by inch, and inch by inch, here they come! Coming! The eyes were all shining, something was being said on the mouth, there was a sound of people, the whole street smelled of sweat, the people of the country of ethics and ethics passionately loved to watch killings.

Ruan Ming is a short man, sitting in the car with his hands tied upside down, like a sick little monkey; his head is lowered, and a two-foot-long white stick is inserted behind his back. The human voice was like a tidal wave urging the back wave. Everyone curled their lips and criticized, and they were all a little disappointed: He is such a little monkey! It’s so fluffy and boring! He lowered his head, his face was pale, and he just remained silent! Some people thought of the idea and wanted to tease him: "Brother, call him a good boy!" Immediately afterwards, everyone from all directions shouted "good!" as if cheering for Kun Ling on the stage, shouting contemptuously, maliciously, and annoyingly. Ruan Ming still said nothing and didn't even raise his head. Some people were really anxious and looked down on such a soft prisoner. They crowded to the side of the road and spat at him. Ruan Ming still didn't move and showed no sign. The more everyone watched, the more bored they became, and the more reluctant they were to leave; what if he suddenly said: "In twenty years, he will be a good man again"? What if he wants to ask the hotel for two pots of dried meat and a plate of soy sauce? No one wants to move, let's see what happens to him. The car passed by and I had to follow him. He didn't show much performance now. How could he know that he would catch his breath and sing a few lines of "Shiro Visits His Mother" when he got to Danpailou? Follow! Some followed him all the way to the overpass; although he never did anything admirable or satisfying, people watched him take bullets, which was a worthwhile trip after all.

In such a lively season, Xiangzi walked slowly at the root of Deshengmen City alone with his head lowered. When he reached Jishuitan, he looked around. There was no one around, so he slowly and quietly walked up to the lake. I walked to the lake, found an old tree, leaned against the trunk, and stood for a while. Hearing that there was no sound around, he sat down gently. The reed leaves moved slightly, or a bird suddenly called out, causing him to stand up quickly, with sweat on his head. He listened and looked, but there was no movement around. He slowly sat down again. After doing this several times, he became accustomed to seeing the slight movement of the reed leaves and hearing the chirping of birds, and decided not to panic anymore. I stared blankly at some small fish in the ditch outside the lake, with eyes as bright as beads, gathering and scattering, coming and going; sometimes there was a piece of tender duckweed on their heads, and sometimes some foam was spitting out of their mouths. Beside the ditch, some tadpoles that have grown legs stand upright and swing their big black heads. The water suddenly flowed faster, washing away the small fish and tadpoles. Their tails were crooked and they went down the river. However, another group came along with the water, struggling to stop. A water scorpion ran over very quickly. The water flow gradually stabilized, and the small fish formed a team again, opening their small mouths to nibble on a floating green leaf or a piece of grass. The slightly larger fish hide in the depths, and occasionally reveal their backs, then turn around and go down, leaving whirlpools and some cracks on the water surface. The kingfisher grazed across the water like an arrow, and all the small and big fish disappeared, leaving only duckweed on the water. Xiangzi looked at these blankly, seeming to see it, but not seeming to see it. He accidentally picked up a small stone and threw it into the water. It splashed some water and scattered many duckweeds. He was startled and wanted to stand up again in fright.

After sitting for a long time, he secretly touched his waist with his big black hand. He nodded and kept his hand there; after a while, he took out a wad of banknotes in his hand, counted them, and hid them back in his place with great caution.

His heart was entirely occupied with that little money: how to spend it, how not to teach others, how to enjoy it and be safe. He no longer thinks for himself, he has become an appendage of money, and everything must be controlled by it.

The origin of this little money has already determined its path. This kind of money cannot be spent openly. Neither this little money nor the people holding it dare to see the sun. People were watching Ruan Ming on the street. Xiangzi hid in the quiet city root, trying to get to a quieter and darker place. He didn't dare to walk in the market anymore because he sold Ruan Ming. Even when he was alone facing the quiet water, with his back against the deserted city roots, he did not dare to raise his head, as if a ghost was always following him. Ruan Ming, who fell in blood on the overpass, is alive in Xiangzi's heart and in some banknotes around his waist. He didn't regret it, he was just afraid of the ghost that followed him everywhere and all the time.

After Ruan Ming became an official, he enjoyed some things that he had previously thought should be defeated. Money will lead people into a bad society, put aside their noble ideals, and willingly go to hell. He put on gorgeous foreign clothes, went whoring, gambling, and even smoked opium. When his conscience discovered it, he thought it was the evil society that framed him, and it was not entirely his fault; he admitted that his behavior was wrong, but the temptation to blame society was too strong for him to resist. Over and over again, he ran out of money, and he thought of those intense thoughts again, but he was not motivated to execute them; he wanted to use his thoughts in exchange for some money. Turning thoughts into money is like trying to get a passing grade by interacting with the teacher while studying. A lazy person's thoughts cannot coexist with his personality. Everything that can be exchanged for money will be sold sooner or later. He received a stipend. Organs that are eager to promote the revolution cannot choose their soldiers very carefully. Those who are willing to surrender are comrades. However, those who receive subsidies must have some achievements, no matter what means are used; what the agency wants is a report. Ruan Ming can't just take the money and do nothing. He participated in the work of organizing foreign rickshaw drivers. Xiangzi was already an expert in flag-waving and shouting. Therefore, Ruan Ming got to know Xiangzi.

Ruan Ming sells his ideas for money; Xiangzi accepts his ideas for money. Ruan Ming knew that Xiangzi could be sacrificed when necessary. Xiangzi had never made such a plan, but he did it when the time came - betrayed Ruan Ming. Those who work for money are afraid of encountering more money; loyalty is not based on money. Ruan Ming believed in his thoughts and used the intensity of his thoughts to forgive all his bad behaviors. Xiangzi heard what Ruan Ming said was very reasonable, but seeing Ruan Ming's enjoyment was also very enviable - "If I had more money, I would be happy for a few days! Just like the person named Ruan!" Money reduced Ruan Ming's personality, and money dazzled Xiangzi's eyes. He sold Ruan Ming for sixty yuan. What Ruan Ming wants is the power of the masses, and Xiangzi wants more enjoyment like Ruan Ming. Ruan Ming's blood was sprinkled on the allowance, and Xiangzi stuffed the banknotes into his waist.

He sat there until the sun turned to the west and the pampas grass and willow trees on the lake were covered with golden and red light. Only then did Xiangzi stand up and walk westward along the roots of the city. He is used to cheating money; this is the first time he sells people's lives. What's more, what he heard from Ruan Ming was very reasonable! The emptiness of the city's roots and the height of the city walls made him more and more afraid as he walked. Occasionally he saw a few crows on the garbage heap, and he wanted to walk away, fearing that they would startle them and give him some ominous crows. When he reached Xichenggen, he stepped up his pace and slipped out of Xizhimen like a dog that had stolen something. It was an ideal place to go at night to have someone with him, to numb him and make him unafraid; the white house was such an ideal place.

In autumn, Xiangzi's illness no longer allowed him to pull a cart, and Xiangzi's credit was so damaged that he could no longer rent a cart. He became the caretaker of a small shop. At night, with two copper plates, you can lie down in the shop. During the day, he went to do some work that could only earn him a bowl of porridge. He couldn't beg on the street. No one would be kind to him for such a big man. He doesn't know how to put some paint on his body and go to temple fairs to beg for money, because he hasn't been taught how to disguise the sores on his body into touching misfortune. He doesn't have the skills to be a thief. Thieves also have groups and connections. Only he himself will earn a living for himself, without any other dependence or assistance. He worked hard for himself and died for himself. He is waiting to take his last breath. He is a dead ghost who still has breath. Individualism is his soul. This soul will rot in the soil along with his body.

Since Peiping was designated as the old capital, its pomp, crafts, food, language, patrols... have slowly spread to the outside world, looking for places with the same majesty and financial resources as the emperor to support. The Westernized Qingdao also has Beiping's mutton-shabu-shabu; in the lively Tianjin, you can also hear the sad "hard noodles-饽饽" in the middle of the night; in Shanghai, Hankou, and Nanjing, there are also tourists who speak Beijing dialect. The police and officers ate sesame-sauce pancakes; the Xiangpian tea party went from south to north, passing through Shuangxun in Peiping and then south; even the pole bearers sometimes took the train to Tianjin or Nanjing to carry the coffins of high-ranking officials.

Peiping itself is gradually losing its original ostentation. You can still buy flower cakes after September 9th in the dim sum shops, and those who sell yuanxiao may have gone out of the market in the autumn. Those two or three hundred-year-old shops suddenly thought of commemorating the anniversary, so as to distribute leaflets about big sales... Economic oppression has forced the ostentation to find another way, and dignity cannot be used as food. However, weddings and funerals generally retain the old rituals and style. Weddings and funerals seem to be noteworthy but more or less pompous. The butlers, ringers, wedding sedans and official covers for weddings and funerals are not something any city can match. The pines, cranes and lions used for funerals, the paper-made sedans and horses, the full set of butlers used for weddings, and the twenty-four rattles still appear in the market in an official style, reminding people of the prosperity and magnanimity of the peaceful era.

Xiangzi's life mostly relies on these remaining rituals and rules. For those who were getting married, he held flags and umbrellas for them; for those who were undergoing funerals, he held wreaths and elegiac couplets for them; he was neither happy nor crying, he only accompanied them on the streets for the ten coppers. Putting on the green or blue robe prepared by the gang house or the wedding sedan shop, and the inappropriate black hat, he could temporarily cover his rags and look a little more decent. When he met a wealthy family who was doing business and asked everyone to shave their heads and wear boots, he had the opportunity to make his head and feet neat and tidy. His heart disease prevented him from moving forward, so he just walked slowly along the roadside holding a flag or two elegiac couplets.

However, he is not even a good person at doing this. His golden age has passed. He has never started a family or established a career in a foreign car. Everything has become "that way" according to his wishes. He is so big, but he is always trying to fly a flying tiger flag, or a pair of short and narrow elegiac couplets; he refuses to move the heavier red umbrellas, silence cards, etc. He will also compete with an old man, a child, or even a woman. He refused to suffer any loss.

Holding such a small thing, he lowered his head, bent his back, holding a cigarette end picked up from the road in his mouth, and slowly and feebly rubbed it. When everyone is standing still, he may still leave; after everyone has left, he may stand for a while; he seems not to hear the sound of the gong giving orders. He never looked at the evenness of the distance before and after, or whether the queues on the left or right were neat or uneven. He walked in his own way, with his head lowered as if he was dreaming, or as if he was thinking about some profound truth. The gong man in red and the deacon holding the silk flag almost cursed him in all the village dialects: "Grandson! I'm talking about you, Camel! You're fucking on par!" He didn't seem to hear it yet. The gong player went over and gave him a gong hammer. He rolled his eyes and looked around dimly. Regardless of what the gong player said, he looked carefully on the ground to see if there were any cigarette butts worth picking up. Decent, strong, dreamy, self-interested, personal, strong, great, Xiangzi, I don’t know how many funerals he has accompanied others; I don’t know when and where he will bury himself, this depraved, selfish, unfortunate, born in the womb of social disease, the doomed ghost of individualism!